SO TOO I'M
GOING TO CALL THEM MEETING TO
ORDER FOR THE INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION AND I'M GOING TO ASK
MR. GINéS TO CALL THE ROLL.
THANK YOU.
THIS MEETING WILL BE BROADCAST
82 SHALABI ONLINE OR PUBLIC
COMMENTARY IN PERSON OR BY
CALLING 877 EIGHT FIVE THREE
FOUR SEVEN OR EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT
SEVEN EIGHT ZERO ZERO NINE NINE
INTO IDAHO NINE THREE BY ONE
FIVE TWO ZERO NINE EIGHT ONE
NINE JAKARTA HERE
COMMISSIONERSHIP IS ABSENT
COMMISSIONER JACKSON PRESENT
COMMISSIONER PIPKIN COUNCIL
MEMBER SONG OF THE ABSENT
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON IS
UPSET COMMISSIONER OFMAN
PRESIDENT VICE CHAIR THE DOOR
HARGRAVES PRESENT COMMISSIONER
PRESENT COMMISSIONER MILGROM
PRESENT WE HAVE A QUORUM THANK
YOU.
BEFORE WE MOVE ON WITH THE
AGENDA AS EVERYBODY KNOWS ONE
OF OUR FORMER MEMBERS
TRAGICALLY LOST HER LIFE NOT
LONG AGO AND I IF ANYONE WISHES
TO SAY ANYTHING ABOUT HER I
INVITE THAT TO HAPPEN AT THIS
TIME AND THEN I'D LIKE TO PAUSE
TO OBSERVE A MOMENT OF SILENCE
IN MEMORY OF JUDE WALTIN,
COMMISSIONER.
THANK YOU, CHAIRMAN.
I THOUGHT FEW WORDS REMEMBERING
JUDE WALTON WE MOURN THE LOSS
OF OUR FORMER COLLEAGUE JUDE
WALTON.
HER MURDER US TO THE CORE ONE
HAD EVER EXPECTED THIS TO
HAPPEN ESPECIALLY TO JUDE.
WE ARE DEEPLY SADDENED AND
EXTREMELY DISTURBED BY THAT.
JUDE WAS ONE OF THE FOUNDING
MEMBERS OF OUR COMMISSION FROM
ITS INCEPTION SHE
CARRIED HER
RESPONSIBILITIES FAITHFULLY
WITH VIGOR AND FOCUS.
HER CONTRIBUTIONS TO EKBERG
WILL BE LONG LASTING.
WE WERE LUCKY AND FORTUNATE TO
HAVE KNOWN HER WORK WITH HER
HER IMPACT AND CONTRIBUTE WILL
GUIDE US IN OUR MISSION.
WE PAY OUR SINCERE CONDOLENCES
TO HER FAMILY, FRIENDS, THE
COMMUNITY, SHE SAID CARELESSLY.
OVER THE YEARS TO ECHO PARK AND
LOSS WILL BE FELT FOR A LONG
TIME BY ALL WHO CAME HOME CAME
TO HER.
JUDE WOULD BE WE MISS YOU MAY
YOUR SOUL REST IN PEACE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ANYONE ELSE HAVE ANY COMMENTS
I'D LIKE TO MAKE AT THIS TIME?
ALL RIGHT.
I WOULD ASK THAT WE JUST AT
THIS POINT TAKE A MOMENT
OF SILENCE IN JUD'S HONOR
.
THANK YOU AND I WOULD OFFER UP
A PRAYER FOR THE SAFETY FOR ALL
OF OUR SAFETY SO MUCH GOING ON
,SO MUCH VIOLENCE AND WE DON'T
KNOW FROM ONE DAY TO ANOTHER.
SO THAT'S KIND TO EACH OTHER,
RIGHT.
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA AS
EVERYONE HAD A CHANCE TO TAKE A
LOOK AT THE AGENDA CAN I HAVE A
MOTION FOR APPROVAL PLEASE?
A SECOND.
SECOND THANK YOU.
ITS MOTIONS MADE BY
COMMISSIONER JACKSON AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER AMEN.
ALL IN FAVOR BY ANY OPPOSED AND
SO THAT IS APPROVED IF YOU'D
HAD A CHANCE TO TAKE A LOOK AT
THE MINUTES WHICH ARE ATTACHED
THE DRAFT OF THE MINUTES
ATTACHED TO OUR AGENDA IN IS
THERE ANYONE READY TO MAKE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES,
MAKE A MOTION TO APPROVE MOVES
FROM A PREVIOUS MEETING?
THANK YOU.
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND THANK
YOU.
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER OFMAN AND
SECONDED BY VICE CHAIR TODORA
HARGRAVES ALL IN FAVOR OF ANY
OPPOSED.
THANK YOU.
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED AT
THIS TIME WE HAVE OUR PUBLIC
FORUM.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO ON THE PHONE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME
?
THANK YOU.
COME RIGHT UP.
GIVE US YOUR NAME AND GO RIGHT
AHEAD.
RIGHT.
SO I WANT TO MAKE A REPORT
OF THIS OR ANYTHING.
I DON'T LIKE CONTACT WITH THE
POLICE BUT YESTERDAY I WAS IN A
CROSSWALK AND ANN ARBOR POLICE
OFFICER DROVE THROUGH A RED
LIGHT AND THEN I WAS I LOOKED
AT THE VEHICLE AND I WAS LIKE
WHAT WERE YOU DOING?
HOW ARE YOU PUTTING MY LIFE IN
DANGER?
AND THEN THE POLICE OFFICER
FLICKED ME OFF SO YEAH, THAT'S
ALL I HAVE TO REPORT.
BUT YOU CAN YOU CAN MAKE THE
REPORT.
YOU CAN MAKE A COMPLAINT.
I DON'T KNOW THE TIME THE
APPROXIMATE LOCATION PERHAPS
THAT OFFICER CAN BE IDENTIFIED.
YEAH.
AND THEN WHAT I THINK THAT THAT
WOULD JUST OPEN MYSELF UP TO
MORE HARASSMENT.
I THINK ALSO I JUST WANTED TO
SPEAK ABOUT HERE INSTEAD.
WELL THANK YOU.
YOU KNOW THE OFFICERS ARE
SUPPOSED TO OBEY THE TRAFFIC
LAWS WHEN THEY'RE IN THEIR
POLICE CARS.
AND SO AGAIN, IF YOU'D LIKE TO
MAKE A FORMAL COMPLAINT, WE
WILL CERTAINLY TAKE THAT AND
PROCESS IT.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE THAT NO ONE'S ON THE
PHONE, MISS JANICE, I DON'T
HAVE ANYONE PRESENTLY OK.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
WE WILL MOVE ALONG NEXT REPORTS
FROM THE CHAIR ABOUT A FEW
THINGS TO SHARE
.
WE HAD AT THE LAST MEETING I
THINK IT WAS MISS JANICE HAD
PASSED OUT A LIST OF COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS THAT WE WERE
PUTTING TOGETHER TO SEND OUT A
LETTER INTRODUCING OURSELVES TO
THE COMMUNITY AND LETTING THEM
KNOW WE'RE AVAILABLE TO COME
OUT AND SPEAK TO THEIR
ORGANIZATION AND INVITING THEM
TO COME AND SHARE WITH US.
I REALLY BELIEVE, YOU KNOW,
WE'RE THE ONLY COMMISSION THAT
HAS COMMUNITY AND ITS NAME AND
I THINK THAT WE ARE SUPPOSED TO
BE A PART OF THE COMMUNITY AND
EXPECT THEM TO BE ABLE TO
COMMUNICATE WITH US.
SO THIS IS THE LAST CALL I KNOW
COMMISSIONER HAD HAD ADDED SOME
ORGANIZATIONS I HAVE A COUPLE
MORE THAT I JUST HAVE TO FIGURE
OUT THE ADDRESS AND THE CONTACT
PERSON.
BUT IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF WEEKS
IF YOU CAN THINK OF ANYONE
ELSE, SOMEONE WHO'S A LEADER
OF A COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION,
PLEASE TURN THOSE INTO
MISOGYNOUS AND WE'RE GOING TO
COMPLETE THAT AND SEND OUR
FIRST MAILING.
OK, AND IN THAT VEIN I START TO
DRAW HUGHLEYS ON MYSELF SPOKE
AT THE COMMUNITY.
I WANT TO SAY COMMUNITY
UNIVERSITY BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT
IT IS.
IT'S A COMMUNITY ACADEMY A
COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO AND I SPOKE
TO THE ARBOR DEMS A COUPLE
OF WEEKS AGO.
SO WE ARE GETTING OUT THERE AND
PEOPLE ARE INTERESTED IN WHAT
WE'RE DOING.
SO AND AND I ENCOURAGE THE
COMMISSIONERS IF YOU JUST CHAT
WITH SOMEBODY YOU KNOW, INVITE
THEM TO COME SEE IF THEY WANT
TO SERVE ON OUR COMMISSION.
WE ARE STILL LOOKING FOR WE
HAVE A COUPLE OF VACANCIES
STILL AT THIS TIME.
SO SECONDLY, WE ARE PREPARED
I'M GOING TO PROPOSE I WANT TO
PASS THIS OUT AND I I TRIED TO
GET IT TO MISOGYNOUS BUT YOU
KNOW HOW I AM WITH THE
ELECTRONICS AND IT DIDN'T WORK.
SO BASICALLY THIS IS A COPY
OF A BACK OF A CARD THAT I GOT
FROM SOMEBODY AT AT NACOLE LAST
YEAR AND YOU KNOW THE POLICE
CARRY A CARD WITH AN ID CARD OH
I HAVE ENOUGH AND AND I HAVE
YOU KNOW I GOT IT.
YOU HAVE TO SO BASICALLY THIS
WHEN THE POLICE HAVE AN
ENCOUNTER WITH SOMEONE YOU
KNOW, THEY THE PERSON CAN ASK
FOR THEIR CAR SO I THINK THAT
IT WILL BE GOOD FOR US TO TRY
AND GET THE NEXT BATCH OF PARTS
THAT ARE PRINTED UP FOR THE
POLICE AND MAYBE EVEN TO
REPLACE WHAT THEY HAVE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY HAVE I
HAVEN'T CHECKED WITH THEM BUT
AT LEAST HELP US ON THE BACK OR
SOMEWHERE THE CAR NOW IS PRETTY
FULL.
DO YOU HAVE ONE OF YOUR CAR
WITH.
YES, PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
AND I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S IF
THERE'S SOMETHING
LIKE A
OK ALL
I WANTED TO PURCHASE SO I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU HEARD THAT
CONVERSATION BUT I HAD TWO
PEOPLE ASK FOR YOUR CAR AND I
DON'T KNOW IF THE CITIZENS EVEN
KNOW THAT OFFICERS HAVE A CAR
SO THAT MIGHT BE PART OF WHAT
WE LET YOU KNOW.
WE WANT TO LET FOLKS KNOW AND
THAT SOMEWHERE IN THE BACK NOW
THIS ONE HAS HAS IT IN ALSO IN
SPANISH.
I DON'T KNOW IF WE HAVE A LARGE
ENOUGH POPULATION WE CAN DO IT
.
YEAH.
YES.
CHINESE I WAS SAYING ALSO OH
THANK THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU SO THERE'S NOT AS I
SAY THERE'S NOT ROOM I DON'T SO
IT MIGHT HAVE TO BE A DOUBLE
GOLD I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S
ANYBODY WHO IS ADEPT AT LAYING
THINGS OUT FIGURING THINGS OUT.
YEP.
SO I WOULD ASK SOMEBODY TO
VOLUNTEER TO DO A MOCK UP OF OF
WHAT WE CAN FIRST AGREE ON AND
THEN MAYBE PRESENT IT TO THE TO
THE DEPARTMENT.
EXCUSE ME.
DO YOU AGREE ON THE WORDING
THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO ADD TO
THE CARD ONCE WE RECEIVE THE
CARD FROM THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT
THEN I CAN ASK COMMUNICATIONS
TO DO THEM TO DO IT AND THEN
THEY'LL SEND IT TO ME AND I CAN
SEND IT OUT FROM THERE.
OK, SO DOES ANYBODY JUST WANT
TO WORK ON HOW TO FIX HOW HOW
TO MAKE IT SORT OF IN A IN A A
WAY THAT WE CAN THEN GET IT
PRINTED UP OR GET A MARKUP?
NO OK, I CAN PROMISE YOU I HAVE
A QUESTION SO WE'RE LOOKING TO
SEE WHAT THEY ALREADY HAVE OUT
THERE AND THEN ADDING IMPORTANT
INFORMATION TO IT.
YES, AND AGAIN IT MIGHT HAVE TO
BE A DOUBLE FOLD NOW MUCH
OF THE INFORMATION ON THE OTHER
SIDE HE HAS TO DO WITH VICTIMS
RIGHTS, YOU KNOW, WHICH WE WANT
ON THERE.
BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT THE
POLICE COME IN CONTACT WITH ARE
NOT VICTIMS.
SO OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS HAS
VOLUNTEERED TO DO THAT AND
MAYBE GET THAT BACK TO US IN
THE NEXT YEAR IF YOU GET IT
DONE, YOU KNOW, IF YOU HAVE
TIME TO GET IT DONE AND GET IT
TO MISOGYNOUS THAT WOULD BE
WHENEVER YOU DOESN'T HAVE TO BE
THE NEXT MEETING.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR DOING IT.
NEXT ON MY LIST OF THINGS TO
TALK ABOUT IS THE POLICY
COMMITTEE AND WHEN WE HAD OUR
RETREAT WE HAD A COMMITTEE
COMMITTEE THAT WAS GOING TO BE
MADE UP OF MAINE COMMISSIONER
MILGRAM AND MYSELF.
I'M GOING TO KIND OF ASK HIM TO
TO CHAIR THAT SUBCOMMITTEE AND
WERE YOU ABLE TO FIND THIS THAT
I WAS NOT OK?
WOULD YOU PASS THAT DOWN
PLEASE?
SO WHEN I WHEN I LOOKED THE
POLICY YOU KNOW, THERE'S
SOMETHING WE TALKED ABOUT HOW
MANY POLICIES THERE ARE AND I
DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S ANY
AGREEMENT EVEN AS TO HOW MANY
THERE THERE'S A LOT OF THEM.
BUT WHEN I LOOKED AT THESE
PERSONNEL REGULAR SYSTEMS WHICH
ARE IN I THINK THIS IS THE
NUMBER ZERO ONE TWO ZERO ONE
TWO UP IN THE CORNER WOULD THAT
BE THE NUMBER?
YEAH.
OK, SO THIS IS PERSONNEL
REGULATION AND I'M GOING TO ASK
DOES ANYBODY WANT TO WORK BY
THE WAY WITH COMMISSIONER
MILGROM ON UNREVEALING
POLICIES, POLICE POLICIES WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT NOW
WORKING WITH
THIS IF EVERYBODY IF YOU GET A
CHANCE TO TAKE A LOOK AT THIS,
I THINK THAT THE PERSONNEL
POLICIES ME FRANKLY WHAT THE
UNIFORMS LOOK LIKE, YOU KNOW,
AND WHAT SHINING SHOES,
WHATEVER THOSE OTHER POLICIES
ARE AREN'T I WOULD THINK AS
IMPORTANT TO US AS THE
PERSONNEL POLICIES.
I DON'T KNOW IF ANYONE ELSE HAS
BEEN FOLLOWING IS THERE'S A
CITY OUT IN CALIFORNIA, SMALL
CITY FOR SOME REASON THE FBI
WAS INVOLVED IN THE
INVESTIGATION OUT THERE AND
THEY FOUND THAT THE OFFICERS IN
TEXT MESSAGES AND IN THERE
EMAILS WERE USING PROFANITIES
WERE USING RACIAL SLURS, WERE
TALKING ABOUT THE MEMBERS
OF THEIR COMMUNITY THAT THEY
POLICE CALLING THEM ANIMALS AND
MONKEYS AND THIS KIND OF THING
.
AND THIS WAS ONLY FOUND OUT IN
THEIR SOCIAL MEDIA.
NOW I'M NOT ON SOCIAL MEDIA
OF ANY KIND AND SO I WOULDN'T
BE THE ONE FOR THAT TO COME TO
MY ATTENTION.
BUT IF IT WERE TO COME TO OUR
ATTENTION THAT WE HAD FOLKS
LIKE THIS OR WHO WERE PROMOTING
THIS TYPE OF OF LANGUAGE IN OUR
POLICE DEPARTMENT, I DON'T
THINK WE WANT THEM.
WE CERTAINLY WANT TO BE ABLE TO
SEE THAT THEY'RE DISCIPLINED
NOW THEY ARE I UNDERSTAND FIRST
AMENDMENT ISSUES BUT I BELIEVE
THAT WE CAN GET AROUND THOSE SO
I'VE ASKED SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIR
MILGROM TO LOOK AT THESE AND I
HIGHLIGHTED I PUT A HIGHLIGHT
ON FOUR OF THOSE AND YOU JUST
SORT OF IF YOU THINK WE NEED A
LEGAL OPINION, WE CAN WE CAN
TURN IT OVER TO ASK OUR ASK OUR
CITY ATTORNEY FOR AN OPINION.
BUT I THINK THOSE COME PRETTY
CLOSE.
IT'S WHETHER OR NOT THE ACTIONS
OF AN OFFICER BRING DISRESPECT
OR DISREPUTE ON THE DEPARTMENT.
NOW PERSONALLY WE OUGHT TO HAVE
THAT CITYWIDE WHETHER YOU'RE A
POLICEMAN OR NOT.
BUT THAT'S NOT OUR BUSINESS.
SO I'M JUST GOING TO ASK THE
POLICY SUBCOMMITTEE TO JUST
LOOK INTO THAT, SEE WHAT YOU
THINK.
YES.
THANK YOU.
AND I NOTICE I MEAN THESE ARE
PERSONAL REGULATIONS.
THERE ARE THIS IS PAGE SIX
OF FIFTEEN.
I KNOW YOU TALKED TO ME TODAY.
I COULD NOT FIND IT ON THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT WEBSITE.
I DON'T KNOW IF I'M SURE YOU
I'M SURE I CAN FIND IT BUT I
HAVEN'T YET SO I DON'T KNOW I
WOULD LIKE TO READ THE FIRST
FIVE PAGES AS WELL.
I GUESS SO.
AND JUST GO THROUGH THIS AND
THEN I'LL SEE WHAT WHAT YOU
DON'T HAVE PAGE ONE OF FIFTEEN
THIS I'M SORRY BUT ONCE I PUT
THE ONES WITH THE STICKERS ON
THEM ON TOP BUT YOU SHOULD HAVE
THE WHOLE THING OK BECAUSE IT'S
ONLY TWO PAGES WITH STICKERS ON
COMMISSIONER MILGROM I CAN SEND
YOU THE LINK FOR THE POLICE
POLICY AND PROCEDURE.
I SEE THAT I DO HAVE SOME
AUTHORITY THAT BUT I WOULD LOVE
TO SEE YOU THANKS TO THIS AND
OF COURSE ANYTHING ELSE YOU SEE
IN THERE THAT YOU WANT TO BRING
TO OUR ATTENTION?
YOU KNOW, THAT'S PART OF WHAT
WE'RE SUPPOSED TO BE LOOKING AT
IS THE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS ABOUT THE
ABOUT THE ISSUE OF POLICE
POLICIES AND PROCEDURE REVIEW?
OK,
VICE CHAIR TO TODORA
HARGRAVES IS GOING TO BE
HANDLING OUR TRAINING AND SHE
THEY THEY'VE HAD AT LEAST ONE
MEETING.
I THINK THERE'S ANOTHER MEETING
OF THE INFORMATION MANAGERS AND
I'M GOING TO BE STAYING ON AS
INFORMATION MANAGER JUST IN
CASE I NEED TO LOOK AT
SOMETHING BUT I'M NOT GOING TO
BE DOING THE REVIEWS AND I'M
GOING TO LET HER TALK ABOUT
WHAT THAT COMMITTEE HAS HAS
COME UP WITH.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU WANT TO DO
THAT AT THIS POINT OR WAIT TO
YOUR REPORT AND GIVE A FULL
REPORT AT THAT TIME.
YEAH, WE CAN REPORT RIGHT NOW
SO WE'LL JUST WE'LL JUST WAIT
AND AND THE NEW THING THAT CAME
UP ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WAS
REQUESTED APPARENTLY WE ALREADY
HAVE ACCESS.
THERE'S AN ISSUE WHETHER WE AS
COMMISSIONERS CAN HAVE A
PLATFORM OR WHATEVER THAT WE
CAN SHARE INFORMATION ON THAT'S
NOT PUBLIC AND NOT A GENERAL
CITY PLATFORM AS I UNDERSTAND
IT.
SO WE ALREADY HAVE IT.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING ELSE THAT
WE'RE GOING TO BE TALKING
ABOUT.
I ENCOURAGE EVERYBODY ALL
OF THE COMMISSIONERS TO IF YOU
IF YOU'RE NOT ON THE
SUBCOMMITTEE AND I I HAVE THE
SUBCOMMITTEE LIST THAT WE HAVE
SO FAR NOBODY HAS SIGNED UP FOR
THE WEB PAGE.
I KNOW.
OK, NO VOLUNTEERS ON THE WEB
PAGE.
OK, AND NOBODY HAS VOLUNTEER
FOR THE BUDGET AND FINANCE
COMMITTEE AND MISS JANICE SENT
ME A BUDGET.
WHAT DO YOU WHAT DID YOU SAY TO
ME?
I SENT YOU THE QUARTERLY REPORT
QUARTERLY REPORT AND JUST
LOOKING AT SOME OF THOSE THINGS
WE'RE OVER BUDGET LOOKS LIKE ON
A COUPLE OF THINGS WE GOT TO
TALK.
YEAH, I GUESS I'LL HAVE TO
FIGURE THAT OUT MYSELF BECAUSE
NOBODY VOLUNTEERED TO BE ON
THAT.
SO I'LL FIGURED OK, I CAN HELP
.
OK, VERY GOOD.
VERY GOOD.
CAN I ASK A QUESTION?
ABSOLUTELY.
WEBSITE WHAT IF WE'RE LOOKING
TO DO A FIVE YEAR ON THE CITY
OF AN IOWA STATE SO TRYING TO
HAVE OUR OWN WEBSITE OR HAVE
TYPED OUT WHAT IT LOOKED LIKE
OR WHAT'S NEEDED FOR IT WHAT WE
WE WERE WE WERE LOOKING AT
HAVING OUR OWN SEPARATE SITE
ALSO OF SO THAT IT WAS A LITTLE
MORE INVOLVED AND A LITTLE MORE
USER FRIENDLY.
THE CITY SITE HAS SPECIFIC
PARAMETERS IT THINGS NEED TO
FIT INTO BECAUSE WE'RE A
COMMISSION.
SO WE WERE LOOKING AT HAVING A
A MORE ROBUST SITE AND WE FOUND
SOME OTHER OVERSIGHT
COMMISSIONS THAT WE WERE USING
AS EXAMPLES AT THE MOMENT.
OH WONDERFUL.
AND YOU KNOW WHAT?
YOU COULD HIRE SOMEONE TO WRITE
YOU AND THEN YOU YOU MIGHT BE
ABLE TO GET IT DONE QUICKLY AND
EFFICIENTLY AND AND I MEAN I
THINK IT'S NOT THAT YOU ARE NOT
CAPABLE I WAS JUST SAYING THAT
SOMETIMES IN A JOB LIKE THIS
IT'S PRETTY TECHNICAL JOB YOU
WANT TO READ IT IN A CERTAIN
WAY.
YOU MIGHT WANT TO HAVE LINKS,
YOU MIGHT WANT TO PULL THINGS
IN AND SO IN THAT CASE IT MIGHT
BE WORTH IT TO PAY SOMEONE AT
LEAST TO SET IT UP AND THEN
SOMEBODY CAN MAINTAIN IT.
BUT YOU MIGHT WANT TO HIRE
PROFESSIONAL SET IT UP.
YEAH,
I THINK THAT THIS
PROCEDURE WOULD BE TO TO REVIEW
ALL OF THE EXISTING OVERSIGHT
WEBSITES WRITE OUT FOR US TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT IS THE BEST
THINGS WE SEE IN THE ONES THAT
ARE THERE AND THEN TO FIGURE
OUT WHO WE HIRED TO DESIGN THE
WEBSITE WITH THE THINGS THAT WE
NEED BASED UPON ALSO THE BEST
THINGS THAT WE SEEING OUT
OF EXISTING WEBSITE.
I DON'T THINK ANYBODY'S ASKING
PERMISSION OR PEOPLE TO
ACTUALLY DO THE CODING ANY DAY
OK?
AND I THINK ANY OF US ARE
CAPABLE OF THAT.
SO WHAT COMMISSIONER JACKSON
SAID ABOUT HIRING SOMEBODY I
THINK WE SHOULD THAT SHOULD BE
SOMETHING IN THE BUDGET AND
THAT COULD BE PRETTY EXPENSIVE.
YOU KNOW SO WELL IN YOUR YEAH
YEAH YEAH.
I HAVE ALREADY CONFESSED TO HOW
LITTLE I KNOW ABOUT COMPUTERS
SO I'M GOING TO ASK IF I ASKED
YOU TO DO A HYBRID SINCE YOU
KNOW WHAT WE NEED.
CAN YOU SORT OF I DON'T KNOW IF
YOU HAVE THE RESOURCES TO FIND
SOMEBODY WHO CAN DO IT FOR US,
COME BACK AND LET US KNOW HOW
MUCH IT WOULD COST AND AND SO
FORTH AND SO ON.
HOW ABOUT THEM?
YEAH I CAN DO THAT.
GOOD THANK YOU.
AND THEN WE'LL HOPEFULLY
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS WILL BE BE
WILLING TO TO WORK ON IT AFTER
IT'S SET UP.
OK EXCELLENT EXCELLENT.
ONE LAST THING THAT I HAVE AND
THAT IS VERY SAD NEWS PROBABLY
HAPPY NEWS FOR HER THIS JANICE
IS RETIRING.
OH NO I AND WE'RE SO SORRY BUT
HAPPY FOR YOU IS IT YOU WANT TO
SAY ANYTHING AT ALL WITH ME
WITH HER.
YEAH I MEAN I GOT A COUPLE
WEEKS MY MOM AND MY MOM MADE
TWENTY FOURTH IS MY LAST DAY
AND IT HAS JUST BEEN MY HONOR
AND PLEASURE TO WORK FROM THE
GROUND FLOOR AND SEE HOW FAR
BIPAC IS GROWN AND I HAVE
ENJOYED IT.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY.
HOW DOES ONE RETIRE AT SUCH A
YOUNG AGE?
YOU'RE SO KIND AND IS DYING SO
ARE THEY GOING TO THEY'RE GOING
TO POST YOUR POSITION?
I THINK THEY HAVE OH OK.
OK BECAUSE YOU KNOW WE'RE GOING
TO NEED SOME HELP YOU KNOW I
NEED SOME HELP SO I CALL YOU A
PART OF THAT HIRING PROCESS
THAT I DON'T KNOW I CAN CHECK
ON THAT FOR YOU.
OK, I'LL BE GOOD.
THANK YOU.
OK, SO IS THIS NOT THIS IS NOT
YOUR FINAL MEETING.
CORRECT.
YOU'LL BE AT THE MEETING IN
TODAY'S MEETING ALCOHOLICS
ANONYMOUS MEETING.
I'LL HOLD MY REMARKS UNTIL OH
OK OK THANK YOU.
SO THAT IS THE END OF THE
CHAIR'S REPORT YOU KNOW ARE
THERE ANY COMMENTS QUESTIONS
ANY ANY ADDITIONS, ANYTHING
ANYONE WANTS TO ADD OR TALK
ABOUT.
OK IF NOT NEXT ON THE AGENDA IS
THE REPORTS THE VICE CHAIR
THANK YOU.
AND AS CHAIR CARTER MENTIONED,
I HAVE BEEN WORKING ON OUR
COMMISSION POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES AND ALSO TRAINING.
SO I'M GOING TO START WITH THE
FIRST OF THE POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES THAT WE LOOKED AT
WHICH WERE FOR THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS AND HOW THEY GO ABOUT
REVIEWING THE COMPLAINTS FIRST
ALL I DO WANT TO SAY THAT
COMMISSIONER OTHMAN IS GOING TO
BE CHAIRING THAT GROUP SO HE
WILL BE OVERSEEING THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS AS WE MOVE
FORWARD AND WE HAVE COME UP
WITH THESE TWO DOCUMENTS.
IT SHOULD BE IN YOUR PACKET
THERE MARK DRAFT ONE OF THEM IS
THE REVIEW PROCESS WHICH
EXPLAINS WHAT HAPPENS AS THE
COMPLAINT COMES IN GOES THROUGH
PD.
THEN ONCE IT'S DONE AND THE
APPEAL TIME HAS PASSED WE
RECEIVE ALL OF THE FILES WITH
REGARD TO THAT COMPLAINT
INVESTIGATION AND THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS CAN BEGIN
THEIR PROCESS.
WE WILL BE AND ONE OF THE
THINGS WE TALKED ABOUT IN THE
PAST WE ARE WORKING WITH I T TO
GET A SPREADSHEET IN A POSITION
WHERE WE WILL BE ABLE TO SHARE
UP TO DATE INFORMATION OR THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS WILL ON
WHO'S REVIEWED WHAT DOCUMENT
WHERE THEY WHAT COMPLAINT AND
WHERE THEY ARE IN THE PROCESS.
AND SO THAT WILL HELP US
STREAMLINE IT A LITTLE BIT
BETTER.
THEY ONCE THEY DO REVIEW BODY
CAMERA FOOTAGE AND OTHER
DOCUMENTS, THEY CAN MEET WITH
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT TO
DISCUSS ANY QUESTIONS OR ANY
NEED FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
ONCE THE PRIMARY INFORMATION
MANAGER SO THE PERSON DOING A
REVIEW IS COMPLETE WITH THEIR
FINDINGS AND IT HAS BEEN
REVIEWED BY THE CHAIR OF THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS.
WE HAVE ANOTHER DOCUMENT HERE
THAT'S ALSO MARK DRAFT WHICH IS
OUR CLOSING SUMMARY ARE CLOSED
CASE SUMMARY WHICH WILL BE OUR
FINAL DOCUMENT OF WHAT WE FIND
IN THE INVESTIGATION WHICH AND
THEN ALSO BE SHARED WITH THE
COMPLAINANT IF WE HAVE ANY
INFORMATION THAT WILL BE
PREPARED BY THE PRIMARY
INFORMATION MANAGER AND THEN
SIGNED OFF ON BY THE CHAIR
OUR CASE WILL BE MARKED CLOSED
INFORMATION MANAGER AND THEN
AND ANY OF OUR FINAL FINDINGS
OUR CASE WILL BE MARKED CLOSED
AS MUCH AS CAN BE MADE PUBLIC
AND ANY OF OUR FINAL FINDINGS
WILL BE MADE PUBLIC AND WILL BE
AS MUCH AS CAN BE MADE PUBLIC
SHARED TO THE CITY SHAREPOINT
WILL BE MADE PUBLIC AND WILL BE
SYSTEM.
SHARED TO THE CITY SHAREPOINT
SO THIS IS BASICALLY THE
SYSTEM.
PROCESS IT WAS REVIEWED AND
SO THIS IS BASICALLY THE
APPROVED BY THE INFORMATION
PROCESS IT WAS REVIEWED AND
MANAGERS WHO AT THIS TIME ARE
APPROVED BY THE INFORMATION
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS
MANAGERS WHO AT THIS TIME ARE
COMMISSIONER BILLUPS
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS
COMMISSIONER OTHMAN MYSELF AND
COMMISSIONER BILLUPS
CHAIR CADRE WHO WILL BE THERE
COMMISSIONER OTHMAN MYSELF AND
TO REVIEW ANYTHING THAT YOU MAY
CHAIR CADRE WHO WILL BE THERE
NEED TO FOLLOW UP ON AS CHAIR.
TO REVIEW ANYTHING THAT YOU MAY
SO I THINK WHAT I LIKE NOW IS
NEED TO FOLLOW UP ON AS CHAIR.
IF WE CAN DISCUSS OR MAKE A
SO I THINK WHAT I LIKE NOW IS
MOTION TO APPROVE AND THEN
IF WE CAN DISCUSS OR MAKE A
DISCUSS HOWEVER WE'D LIKE TO DO
MOTION TO APPROVE AND THEN
IT IF ANYBODY HAS QUESTIONS BUT
DISCUSS HOWEVER WE'D LIKE TO DO
WE WOULD LIKE THE FULL
IT IF ANYBODY HAS QUESTIONS BUT
COMMISSION TO APPROVE THESE
WE WOULD LIKE THE FULL
DOCUMENTS AND THE PROCEDURE.
COMMISSION TO APPROVE THESE
OK, I WOULD I WOULD THINK WHY
DOCUMENTS AND THE PROCEDURE.
DON'T WE MAKE A MOTION TO
OK, I WOULD I WOULD THINK WHY
APPROVE THESE DRAFTS AND THEN
DON'T WE MAKE A MOTION TO
THE DISCUSSION CAN FOLLOW THE
APPROVE THESE DRAFTS AND THEN
MOTION SO I'LL MAKE A MOTION TO
THE DISCUSSION CAN FOLLOW THE
APPROVE THE DRAFT.
MOTION SO I'LL MAKE A MOTION TO
OK, IS THERE A SECOND OF THANK
APPROVE THE DRAFT.
YOU SO THE MOTION HAS BEEN
OK, IS THERE A SECOND OF THANK
MADE.
YOU SO THE MOTION HAS BEEN
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION?
MADE.
JUST ONE MORE THING PROBABLY MY
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION?
DAD IS IF YOU GET ACCESS TO THE
JUST ONE MORE THING PROBABLY MY
INFORMATION AND EXCEL AND THE
DAD IS IF YOU GET ACCESS TO THE
IP CAN HELP US AUTOMATICALLY
INFORMATION AND EXCEL AND THE
GENERATE THE REPORTS ON IN FOR
IP CAN HELP US AUTOMATICALLY
EACH CASE.
GENERATE THE REPORTS ON IN FOR
SO THAT WOULD BE STANDARDIZED
EACH CASE.
UNIFORM ACROSS THE BOARD AND
SO THAT WOULD BE STANDARDIZED
ALSO FOR YEARS TO COME.
UNIFORM ACROSS THE BOARD AND
SO WE DON'T HAVE TO REALLY
ALSO FOR YEARS TO COME.
REINVENT THE WHEEL AND AND ALSO
SO WE DON'T HAVE TO REALLY
WITH THAT WE CAN TRACE THE
REINVENT THE WHEEL AND AND ALSO
PROGRESS IN THE REPORTS WHO'S
WITH THAT WE CAN TRACE THE
REVIEWING WHERE THINGS STAND AS
PROGRESS IN THE REPORTS WHO'S
CHAIR OF THE INFORMATION
REVIEWING WHERE THINGS STAND AS
MANAGER I WOULD BE REVIEWING
CHAIR OF THE INFORMATION
ALL THE CASES SO I DON'T HAVE
MANAGER I WOULD BE REVIEWING
TO BE I DON'T WANT TO BE THE
ALL THE CASES SO I DON'T HAVE
ONE THAT IS REALLY STOPPING
TO BE I DON'T WANT TO BE THE
THINGS FROM MOVING FORWARD.
ONE THAT IS REALLY STOPPING
SO WHEN THE MANAGERS ARE DONE
THINGS FROM MOVING FORWARD.
ALSO BE DONE WITH THOSE THINGS
SO WHEN THE MANAGERS ARE DONE
AND JUST SIGN ON THE REPORTS
ALSO BE DONE WITH THOSE THINGS
AND REPORTS WILL PROBABLY COME
AND JUST SIGN ON THE REPORTS
TO THE COMMISSION AS A WHOLE TO
AND REPORTS WILL PROBABLY COME
VOTE ON AND HAVE THAT IF
TO THE COMMISSION AS A WHOLE TO
POSSIBLE AS A PUBLIC AVAILABLE
VOTE ON AND HAVE THAT IF
DOCUMENTS.
POSSIBLE AS A PUBLIC AVAILABLE
PERSONALLY I THINK THAT THIS IS
DOCUMENTS.
A GREAT SOLUTION AND YOU KNOW,
PERSONALLY I THINK THAT THIS IS
PREVIOUSLY IT WAS JUST SOLELY
A GREAT SOLUTION AND YOU KNOW,
FOR THREE OR FOUR PEOPLE
PREVIOUSLY IT WAS JUST SOLELY
EVERYBODY TO REVIEW IN THE SAME
FOR THREE OR FOUR PEOPLE
REPORT.
EVERYBODY TO REVIEW IN THE SAME
AND IT SEEMS TO ME AND AGAIN
REPORT.
WE'RE NOT REVIEWING IT FOR
AND IT SEEMS TO ME AND AGAIN
LEGAL LEGALLY OR ANYTHING.
WE'RE NOT REVIEWING IT FOR
YOU KNOW, WE'RE A COMMUNITY
LEGAL LEGALLY OR ANYTHING.
REVIEW BOARD AND SO IF EVERY
YOU KNOW, WE'RE A COMMUNITY
YOU KNOW, WHOEVER LOOKS AT IT
REVIEW BOARD AND SO IF EVERY
AND THEN COMMISSIONER OFMAN HAS
YOU KNOW, WHOEVER LOOKS AT IT
THE FINAL CHECK OFF AND THEN
AND THEN COMMISSIONER OFMAN HAS
WE'RE DONE, I THINK THAT'S
THE FINAL CHECK OFF AND THEN
GREAT.
WE'RE DONE, I THINK THAT'S
THE THING THAT I JUST CAME TO
GREAT.
ME THOUGH, YOU KNOW, WE
THE THING THAT I JUST CAME TO
ACCORDING TO OUR ORDINANCE
ME THOUGH, YOU KNOW, WE
WE'RE SUPPOSED TO HAVE A YEARLY
ACCORDING TO OUR ORDINANCE
REPORT AND A REPORT EVERY YEAR
WE'RE SUPPOSED TO HAVE A YEARLY
AND WE YOU KNOW, OVER THE PAST
REPORT AND A REPORT EVERY YEAR
YEARS I JUST TAKE MY HAT OFF TO
AND WE YOU KNOW, OVER THE PAST
OUR PREVIOUS CHAIR HERE AND WE
YEARS I JUST TAKE MY HAT OFF TO
WE REALLY HAD GET OURSELVES SET
OUR PREVIOUS CHAIR HERE AND WE
AND AND COMMISSIONER JACKSON
WE REALLY HAD GET OURSELVES SET
HAD OUR HANDS.
AND AND COMMISSIONER JACKSON
OH YES SHE DID.
HAD OUR HANDS.
AND AND REALLY GOT US ON A PATH
OH YES SHE DID.
WHERE WE CAN NOW REALLY GET
AND AND REALLY GOT US ON A PATH
DOWN TO WHAT WE'RE SUPPOSED TO
WHERE WE CAN NOW REALLY GET
BE DOING.
DOWN TO WHAT WE'RE SUPPOSED TO
SO I THINK THIS IS THIS IS A
BE DOING.
GREAT WAY TO DO IT.
SO I THINK THIS IS THIS IS A
HOWEVER WE'RE SUPPOSED TO IN
GREAT WAY TO DO IT.
OUR ANNUAL REPORT LIST THE
HOWEVER WE'RE SUPPOSED TO IN
TYPES OF COMPLAINT, HOW MANY
OUR ANNUAL REPORT LIST THE
COMPLAINTS I TYPE SO THAT YOU
TYPES OF COMPLAINT, HOW MANY
KNOW AND I DON'T EVEN KNOW IF
COMPLAINTS I TYPE SO THAT YOU
WE'VE FIGURED OUT YET WHAT ARE
KNOW AND I DON'T EVEN KNOW IF
THE TYPES OF COMPLAINTS THAT WE
WE'VE FIGURED OUT YET WHAT ARE
GET RUDENESS EXCESSIVE
FORCE?
I MEAN I THINK IS THAT
SOMETHING THAT YOU KNOW, YOU
ALL CAN DO OUR PLANNING TO DO
GET THE LIST AND SOMEHOW CHECK
ON THIS AND THEN WHEN WE GET
OUR COMPUTERS THING GOING THEN
WE CAN ADD IT IN SO YOU CAN RUN
A REPORT AT THE END OF THE
YEAR.
DOES THAT MAKE SENSE?
WE CAN DO THAT, YEAH.
I THINK THIS IS ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT WE'D WOULD LIKE TO
HAVE AS CREDIBLE DATA THAT THE
POLICE DEPARTMENTS OR US IN PBF
AND IF WE HAVE AN EXCEL FILE WE
GET INTO ANY TYPE OF COMPLAINT
AND THEN WE CAN SAY THAT, YOU
KNOW FIFTY PERCENT OF THE CASES
OF SAY RECEIVED FOR THAT YEAR
OF TWENTY OR THIRTY CASES
FIFTEEN OF THOSE WHERE BECAUSE
OF THE NEGATIVE INTERACTION
BETWEEN THE POLICE AND THE
CITIZENS LIKE RUDENESS OR
DISRESPECT OR LIKE BIAS TO ETC.
SO WE CAN WE CAN HAVE THAT EASY
BUT CURRENTLY WITH THE
INFORMATION THAT WE HAVE YOU
GOT TO AS WE GOT TO GO THE OLD
FASHIONED WAY DOWN THINGS AND I
THINK AT THIS AGE PROBABLY EVEN
WE ARE A LITTLE BIT OLD AND
SOME KIND OF ACCESSORIES THINGS
TO HELP US MOVE FORWARD.
SO DO YOU THINK YOU CAN BASED
ON BASED ON THE REVIEWS YOU'VE
DONE SO FAR AT LEAST START WITH
CATEGORIES.
SO THERE'S A LIST OF MOST
COMPLAINED OF THE INTERACTIONS
.
THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE IS IS THE
POLICE PROVIDES US WITH THE
COMPLAINTS AND ALLEGATIONS
RIGHT THERE AND YOU CAN YOU CAN
LOOK AT KEYWORDS, RUDENESS.
THANK YOU.
YOU JUST LOOK AT THAT COLUMN
OF ALL THE CASES AND HOW MANY
TIMES THAT WORD WAS INCLUDED.
YEAH.
WHICH MEANS THAT IT'S THIS WORD
OR IF IT'S ALSO SO I THINK WHEN
WE HAVE THE EXCEL FILE WITH ITS
HELP ALL THOSE QUESTIONS CAN BE
EASY AND WE CAN GENERATE LIKE
QUARTERLY OR HALF A YEAR OR THE
END OF THE YEAR REPORT OF HOW
MANY CASES AND ALSO PLACE THEM
IN DIFFERENT CATEGORIES.
YES, GOOD GOOD.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS ABOUT THE
THERE'S A MOTION ON THE FLOOR
TO APPROVE THE DRAFTS OF THE
INFORMATION MANAGER REVIEW
PROCESS.
I WOULD JUST ADD THAT EVEN
THOUGH WE GET LIKE KEYWORDS IN
THE DESCRIPTION OF THE CASE, IT
MIGHT BE GOOD JUST TO MAKE SURE
THOSE SORT OF AGREE WITH
EVERYBODY'S ASSESSMENTS OF IT
FOR TWO REASONS.
ONE, IN CASE THERE'S AN
ADDITIONAL CATEGORY THAT MIGHT
COME UP THERE WASN'T NOTED OR
IF THERE'S A DIFFERING CATEGORY
THAT MIGHT COME OTHER THAN WHAT
WAS NOTED.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, IF IT SEEMS TO
BE PRIMARILY RUDENESS BUT IT
ALSO MIGHT BE ANOTHER THING
JUST MAKING SURE THAT EVERYBODY
USES THEIR OWN JUDGMENT IN THAT
AS WELL.
YOU KNOW, AND THE OTHER THING
WE CAN DO IS ALSO THAT WOULD
HELP THE POLICE DEPARTMENT IS
WHO OF THE OFFICERS IS BE
INVOLVED IN THIS KIND
OF INTERACTION SO SO THEY CAN
USE THE DATA ALSO TO IMPROVE OR
TRAIN OR DO WHATEVER THEY WANT
TO DO WITH THE DATA THAT WE
HAVE ABSOLUTELY.
SO YOU'LL BE ABLE TO IDENTIFY
PROBABLY JUST BY NO RANDOM.
SO IF IF ONE NUMBER CONTINUALLY
COMES UP AS BEING RUDE TO
PEOPLE, WE'LL BE ABLE TO POINT
THAT OUT SOMETIMES ONE WOULD BE
ALSO CAREFUL ABOUT SITUATIONS.
YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES IF YOU HAVE
REALLY LOUD CROWD OR AN IN
SITUATIONS WHERE YOU HAVE TO
VOICE IF YOU HAVE TO BE LOUD.
SO THAT'S NOT CONSIDERED TO BE
RUDENESS BUT YOU WANT TO HAVE
CONTROL OVER.
BUT IF YOU HAVE ONE TO ONE
INTERACTION THAT'S A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT.
OK, VERY GOOD.
VERY ANY OTHER COMMENTS
QUESTIONS CONCERNS REGARDING
THE MOTION THAT'S ON THE FLOOR
?
IF NOT, I'M GOING TO CALL THE
QUESTION ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVING THE INFORMATION
MANAGER REVIEW PROCESS FORMS
PLEASE SIGNIFY BY SAYING I I
DENHA OPPOSE OK I THANK YOU.
SURE.
AND SO NEXT THE NEXT POLICY AND
PROCEDURE THAT I WILL BE
WORKING ON IN DRAFTING HAS TO
DO WITH SOMETHING WE TALKED
ABOUT AT OUR LAST MEETING WE
HAD MENTIONED THAT WE WOULD BE
ASKING THE ATTORNEYS OFFICE FOR
THE OPINION WITH REGARD TO THE
COMMUNITY LIAISON THAT ARE
CALLED IN OUR ORDINANCE.
SO IN ORDINANCE THERE IS A
PROVISION FOR COMMUNITY LIAISON
WHICH ARE INDIVIDUALS THAT CAN
FILE A COMPLAINT AGAINST
OFFICERS ON BEHALF OF SOMEONE
AND WE DID HAVE SOMEONE
RECENTLY DO THIS BUT THEN
DURING OUR MEETING WITH THEM
THEY DID NOT HAVE INFORMATION
THAT WAS PERTINENT TO THE
INDIVIDUAL AND THEY ASKED US
FOR THE INFORMATION.
SO WE ASKED THE ATTORNEY'S
OFFICE HOW THAT WORKS WITH
REGARD TO OUR CONFIDENTIALITY
THAT WE ARE BLINDED BY AS CITY
COMMISSIONERS AND THE BASICALLY
HER OPINION WHICH SHE HAS SENT
ME IS THAT THAT THE SAFEST
APPROACH WOULD BE FOR IT NOT
JUST TO SPEAK THROUGH ITS
PUBLIC REPORT AND NOT TO
DISCLOSE ANY CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION WITH REGARD TO A
SPECIFIC INDIVIDUAL TO A THIRD
PARTY.
SO I WILL BE DRAFTING THAT
PIECE INTO A POLICY SO THAT IT
IS SOMETHING WE CAN THEN SHARE
WITH A COMMUNITY COMMUNITY
LIAISON SO THAT THEY'RE AWARE
IF THEY DO FILE A COMPLAINT ON
BEHALF OF SOMEBODY, IF THERE IS
IF WE FIND OUT ANY PERSONAL
INFORMATION WITH REGARD TO THE
INDIVIDUAL, WE ARE NOT AT
LIBERTY TO SHARE THAT WITH THEM
.
SO THAT'LL BE ONE OF THE NEXT
ONES THAT I WORK ON AND ALSO I
LIKE TO START MOVING FORWARD
WITH POLICIES OF HOW WE
INTERACT OR HOW FOLKS BRING THE
COMPLAINTS TO US TO THE
COMMISSION SO WILL BE MOVING
FORWARD ON THAT ONE WITH REGARD
TO TRAINING, AS I SAID WE DID
HAVE A REALLY GREAT TRAINING
WITH THE INFORMATION MANAGERS.
WE TOOK A ONE HOUR LUNCH
TRAINING BASICALLY SO THAT
WORKED OUT REALLY WELL FOR US
AND WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO SET
UP REGULAR ONES AND SHARE
VARIOUS TOPICS OF FOR YOU WITH
YOUR THINGS.
WHAT'S CONFIDENTIAL, WHAT'S
FORCEABLE, WHAT'S NOT AND SOME
OTHER TOPICS THAT SURROUND
COMMUNITY POLICING.
WE'LL WORK WITH NACOLE TO SEE
WHAT TYPES OF VIDEOS AND SO ON
WE CAN GET.
BUT I BELIEVE DENISE HAS A DUAL
PULL OUT ASKING FOR SOME DATES
IN MAY AND WE CAN SEE IF WE
COULD FIND EVEN IF IT'S A
REGULAR LIKE EVERY THIRD
SATURDAY OF THE MONTH OR
SOMETHING WE DO SOMETHING WE
CAN WE CAN FIGURE THAT OUT AS
TIME GOES ON.
BUT I KNOW THE LUNCH ROOM
WORKED OUT REALLY WELL SO THAT
IS ALL I HAVE IN MY UPDATE.
THANK YOU.
YEAH.
AND PLEASE I THINK WHEN THE
DOODLE POLL WENT OUT THERE WERE
LIKE THREE OR TWO OF US WHO
RESPONDED BUT WE'RE REALLY
TRYING TO GET BECAUSE
COMMISSIONER TODORA HARGRAVES
IS TRYING TO SET UP REGULAR
TRAINING FOR US.
IT WOULD BE I THOUGHT MAYBE NOT
BUT IF WE HAD A DAY WHEN MOST
PEOPLE DAY IN TIME WHEN MOST
PEOPLE WERE AVAILABLE, THEN WE
ON A MONTHLY BASIS COULD USE
THAT THE ENTIRE SO IF YOU CAN
FIND IT IF YOU CAN'T FIND IT,
MAYBE GIVE HER A CALL AND MAYBE
WE'LL SEND IT OUT AGAIN.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANY ANY COMMENTS, ADDITIONS,
QUESTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE
VICE CHAIR REPORT IF THERE IS I
SHOULD ADD THIS IF THERE IS ANY
SPECIFIC TRAINING THAT ANYBODY
WOULD LIKE US TO FOCUS ON
PLEASE FEEL FREE TO LET ME KNOW
AND WE CAN GET THAT STARTED.
GOOD.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
AT THIS TIME WE HAVE A SPECIAL
PRESENTATION AND THAT TO
KARPIAK IS HERE AND WE ALSO
HAVE JESSICA DRAKE ON ZOOME.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU ALL WANT TO
WHO WANTS TO GO FIRST OR MAYBE
MISS DRAKE ABOUT THE PROGRAM
ITSELF MIGHT WANT TO GO FIRST
AND THEN WE'LL HEAR FROM THE
SPECIFICS FROM DR. KARPIAK.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
THAT'S GOOD ACTUALLY.
DR. PERPER, CAN I TALK BEFORE
THE MEETING IN OPINION THROUGH
THIS?
HE HAS SOME THOUGHTS TO SHARE
AND AS YOU ASK QUESTIONS AFTER
WE'LL DECIDE WHO MIGHT BEST TO
ANSWER THAT SOUND.
OK, OK.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING
US HERE.
IT'S NICE TO BE WITH YOU.
I'M SORRY I CANNOT BE IN
PERSON.
I'M ACTUALLY IN BALTIMORE,
MARYLAND WORK REMOTELY SO THANK
GOODNESS FOR TECHNOLOGY THAT I
WAS ABLE TO BE BROUGHT IN THIS
WAY TO PRESENT TO THE GROUP.
I KNOW THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF CONVERSATION WITH MEMBERS
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF MONTHS
ABOUT A GROUP THAT YOU RECEIVED
FROM THE COMMUNITY POLICING
INNOVATION INITIATIVE, A
PROGRAM THAT IS IN PARTNERSHIP
WITH THE HUDSON RIVER
FOUNDATION AND THE SOUTHEAST
MICHIGAN COMMUNITY FOUNDATION.
I NICE TO JUST TAKE A MINUTE AT
THE START OF OUR TIME TOGETHER
TO EXPLAIN THE GRANTS AND A
LITTLE BIT OF HOW WE GOT TO
WHERE IT WAS A RECIPIENT OF A
PROGRAM WAS FORMALIZED BEGAN AS
A CREATION AFTER THE DEATH
OF GEORGE BUSH LATE IN 2010.
THE TWO FOUNDATIONS THAT FUND
THIS GRANT CAME TOGETHER AND
REALLY WANTED TO MAKE AN IMPACT
ON POLICE AND COMMUNITY
RELATIONS HOPING TO INVEST
INTENTIONALLY IN THAT SPACE TO
LIFT UP SUCCESSFUL PROGRAMS OR
TO BUILD OUT PROGRAMS WHERE
THERE WERE NONE TO REALLY
BROADEN AND DEEPEN THE DEEPEN
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
COMMUNITIES WHO WERE DOING
GREAT.
LET'S WORK TOGETHER TO ADDRESS
CRIME AND VIOLENCE AND PUBLIC
SAFETY AND THE LAW ENFORCEMENT
WERE HIRED TO PROTECT THEM AT
THAT TIME THEY HIRED MY
ORGANIZATION WHICH IS TWENTY
ONE CP SOLUTIONS TO HELP THEM
CRACK THE GRANT THAT THIS WAS A
NEW SPACE FOR ONE CITY IS MADE
UP OF PREEMINENT LAW
ENFORCEMENT LEADERS, MANY
OF WHICH MAJOR CITY CHIEFS
SEVERAL CIVIL RIGHTS ATTORNEYS
ALSO THOSE WHO WORKED IN HIGH
LEVEL OPERATIONS DUTIES IN LAW
ENFORCEMENT AND A NUMBER
OF OTHERS WHO HAVE EXPERTIZE IN
LAW ENFORCEMENT LIKE MYSELF
AROUND SPACES LIKE COMMUNITY
POLICING, COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH AND
PARTNERSHIPS IN COMMUNITY LAW
ENFORCEMENT PRIVATELY WE HELP
THEM CRACK A GRANT AND WHAT WE
DECIDED WAS SO OFTEN GRANTS
THAT ARE AVAILABLE FOR LAW
ENFORCEMENT GO DIRECTLY TO LAW
ENFORCEMENT TO HELP THEM BUY
EQUIPMENT, TOOLS AND TRAINING
TO SERVE THE COMMUNITY BUT SO
OFTEN DO NOT GO DIRECTLY TO THE
COMMUNITY OR THE COMMUNITY OR
LAW ENFORCEMENT TOGETHER WHERE
THEY ARE IN PARTNERSHIP AND SO
WE DESIGNED THE GRANT THAT
WOULD ALLOW GRASSROOTS
ORGANIZATIONS WHO CAME TO THE
APPLICATION SPACE WITH THE
MUNICIPALITY A PARTNER OR A LAW
ENFORCEMENT PARTNER TETHERED TO
THEIR GRANT APPLICATION A
LETTER OF AGREEMENT, A LETTER
OF PARTNERSHIP TO APPLY FOR
MONEY TO RECEIVE TRAINING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
WE KNOW THAT THERE ARE SOME
GREAT ORGANIZATIONS OUT THERE
THAT HAD SOME STRONG OPINIONS
AND SOME VERY BIG AREAS THAT
WERE IMPORTANT TO GROWTH AND
REIMAGINING PUBLIC SAFETY AND
WE WANTED TO GIVE THEM SOME
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE TO LIFT UP THEIR
IDEA TO FORMALIZE IT AND MAKE
IT STRONG AND THEN WE WOULD
FOLLOW AFTER THAT PERIOD
OF TIME WITH SOME
IMPLEMENTATION TO GET THAT
PROJECT STARTED.
AS I MENTIONED, THE CAVEAT WE
HAD TO HAVE SOME FORM
OF PARTNERSHIP WITH EITHER
MUNICIPAL LEADERSHIP OR LAW
ENFORCEMENT LEADERSHIP IN PLACE
AT THE TIME OF APPLICATION
APPLICANTS TO APPLY IN CERTAIN
SUBJECT AREAS.
THOSE WERE U.S. FORCE OFFICER
ACCOUNTABILITY, DISPARATE
ENFORCEMENT AND TREATMENT
REIMAGINES PUBLIC SAFETY AND
TRUTH AND RECONCILIATION.
SO WE WERE LOOKING FOR PROJECTS
THAT REALLY FOCUSED ON THESE
AREAS WE CONSIDER THE LAST TWO
YEARS OF THE PROJECT A PILOT
PHASE.
WE STARTED OUT WITH
APPLICATIONS OF PUTTING OUR
FEET TO THE NORMAL CHANNELS
INSIDE THE FOUNDATION NETWORK
SEEKING OUT PARTNERS WHO ARE
INTERESTED IN FUNDING THIS
SPACE, WHO WANTED TO RECEIVE
TARGETED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FROM AN EXPERT LIKE DR. KARPIAK
AND HIS ORGANIZATION SMART ARE
AND HAVE SUPPORT.
WE GOT A NUMBER OF APPLICATIONS
AND WE STARTED OUT WITH ABC
SHORTLY AFTER WE BEGAN THE
FIRST INITIAL PASS THAT OUR
PILOT SITES WE OPENED UP THE
APPLICATION TO A SECOND THAT IS
WHEN WE GOT AN APPLICATION FROM
EPOP BASED ON AN INTEREST THAT
HAD BEGUN FROM A DIALOG I THINK
POST THE DEATH OF GEORGE FOY
AROUND DATA COLLECTION IN ANN
ARBOR.
THE APPLICATION THAT WE RECEIVE
ADDRESSES NO QUESTIONS AROUND
AND IN OUR COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION AND WHAT
WILL WORK WAS THAT YOU WANTED
THE IDEA WAS THAT BASED ON SOME
NEW DIALOGS THAT WERE COMING
OUT IN THE REIMAGINED PUBLIC
SAFETY, SOMETHING THAT WERE
COMING FROM THE COMMUNITY AND A
PROJECT THAT WAS ALREADY
UNDERWAY LOOKING AT HOW ANN
ARBOR PD COLLECTED DATA THAT
COULD THEN REFLECT THE STORY
OF THEIR INTERACTIONS BACK TO
THE COMMUNITY THAT WE MIGHT BE
ABLE TO PROVIDE YOU WITH
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROVIDED THAT CAN
HELP MAKE YOU UNDERSTAND THE
DATA THAT WAS COLLECTED BETTER
AND HOW IN THE DATA COLLECTION
PROCESS IT COULD BE MORE
TRANSPARENT ABOUT WHAT OFFICERS
INTERACTIONS WITH THE COMMUNITY
WERE TRULY THE THAT I THINK
THERE ARE THREE SAID HELPING TO
BECOME MORE TRANSPARENT IN
DECISION MAKING.
SO WHEN YOU SAW THE DATA, WHAT
DID THAT TEACH YOU ALL ABOUT
WHAT YOU WERE LEARNING ABOUT
THE PEOPLE THAT CAN HELP YOU
INFORM YOUR DECISIONS?
ADVICE AND COUNSEL WAS ALSO THE
GOAL OF THE GRANT WAS TO HELP
HAPPEN YOU HAVE THE TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROVIDER THAT COULD
PROVIDE MECHANISMS WHERE YOU
COULD BE RESPONSIVE TO THE
COMMUNITY'S PRIORITIES AND
FEEDBACK WHEN THE COMMUNITY CAN
SEE THIS DATA.
SO HOW DOES A PUBLIC SYSTEM
DASHBOARD HOW COULD THAT BEST
BE DESIGNED AND HOW WAS WHAT
DATA COULD HAVE PUT OUT THERE
THAT WOULD REALLY HELP THE
COMMUNITY UNDERSTAND MORE ABOUT
THESE INTERACTIONS?
THESE DISCUSSIONS WERE BASED ON
LOTS OF EVIDENCE THAT IS GOING
AROUND AT THE TIME ABOUT THE
IMPORTANCE OF DATA SHARING
BETWEEN POLICE AND COMMUNITY
AND WE THOUGHT THE APPLICATION
WAS RIPE FOR A GOOD OPPORTUNITY
FOR US TO INVEST AND SO WE
ACCEPTED THE GRANT FROM IT WITH
THE IDEA THAT SMART WAS ALREADY
WORKING WITH THE APD THROUGH
SOME DATA ANALYSIS WITH WHAT
THEY WERE LEARNING AND SO THAT
CALLS FOR YOU ALL TO BETTER
UNDERSTAND DATA AS IT WAS BEING
COLLECTED.
THE DATA THAT YOU WOULD BE
SHARED AND THEN POTENTIALLY
GIVE YOU IS ABOUT MORE ABOUT
THE NUANCES OF HOW IT STOPS AND
INTERACTIONS OCCURRED SO THAT
YOU COULD THEN UNDERSTAND HOW
YOU MIGHT WANT TO HELP BE
INFORMED FROM A CITIZENS
PERSPECTIVE ON WHAT A STOP
MIGHT LOOK LIKE AND WHAT YOU
WANT TO LEARN FROM THOSE STOPS
AND WHAT WHEREVER THERE MIGHT
BE CONCERNS PERHAPS THERE WAS
MAYBE BIAS AND STUFF, MAYBE ONE
MINORITY GROUP AND MY MOTHER
WAS THE STOPPED MORE FREQUENTLY
ONCE YOU SAW THE DATA ONCE MORE
IT HELPED YOU UNDERSTAND HOW TO
ASSESS THE DATA YOU MIGHT BE
ABLE THEN ADDRESS IF THERE WAS
ANY CONCERNS HOW YOU WOULD
RECOMMEND THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
OR TALK ABOUT YOUR COMMUNITY
MEMBERS ABOUT WAYS THAT COULD
BE REMEDIED.
AND SO THAT BECAME THE GRANT
PROCESS OVER A YEAR AGO AS
ANYTHING IS AN PILOT BEST LAID
PLANS ARE SOMETIMES NOT ALWAYS
HOW THINGS GO.
THERE WERE DEFINITELY STEPS TO
START FROM THIS PROJECT AT THE
TIME SMART WAS WORKING DIRECTLY
WITH YOUR CURRENT CHAIR WHICH I
BELIEVE WAS MISS JACKSON AND WE
HAD A NUMBER OF MEETINGS
BETWEEN SMART AND MISS JACKSON
AND AP TO TALK ABOUT THE DATA
COLLECTION THAT WAS ALREADY
HAPPENING TO DISCUSS THE
CHALLENGES THAT THEY WERE
HAVING ABOUT QUARTER OF THE WAY
INTO THIS PROJECT.
I BELIEVE THE PERSON IN CHARGE
OF TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS IN THEIR
DEPARTMENT LEFT THEIR JOB
LEAVING A BIG GAP AND AN
IMPORTANT ROLE IN THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT BUT SMART FOR THE
WAY AHEAD AND FOUND SOME
OPPORTUNITIES TO DELIVER A
NUMBER OF DIFFERENT INFORMATION
SESSIONS TO MEMBERS AND OTHER
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO WOULD BE
INTERESTED IN LEARNING MORE
ABOUT DATA COLLECTION, ABOUT
OVERSIGHT AND ABOUT POLICE
POWERS.
THE IT'S OUR UNDERSTANDING OVER
THE LAST YEAR THERE'S BEEN A
FEW DELIVERABLES THAT HAVE
HAPPENED.
THE FIRST WAS THE BIG WORK PLAN
THAT I MYSELF WAS WITNESS TO
BETWEEN SMART AP AND TO TO TALK
ABOUT HOW THE DATA WOULD BE
ANALYZED, WHAT WOULD BE THE END
GOAL OF THE DATA ANALYSIS LIKE
I MENTIONED THE DASHBOARD AND
WHAT TIMELINE FOR CREATING ALL
OF THIS WOULD BE WHICH WOULD
END WITH SOME TYPE OF REPORT
FROM SMART AROUND THIS TIME IN
THE PROJECT TIMELINE.
SECONDLY, THERE WERE SMART
WOULD OFFER SOME TRADING'S.
WHAT THEY DID IS THEY DESIGNED
A SEMESTER LONG BIWEEKLY
SEMINAR IN THE FALL 2012 ONE IN
THE WINTER OF TWENTY TWENTY TWO
WHICH INCLUDED AN INVITATION TO
ALL OF THE MEMBERS OF A CLUB AS
WELL AS A HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION, CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND A NUMBER OTHER
OVERSIGHT ENTITIES IN THE
REGION INCLUDING SOME FACULTY
AND STAFF FROM AYUMU AS PART
OF ALL OF THIS WORK AND AS
THERE WAS KIND OF TWO THINGS
HAPPENING SMART AGREED TO
PRODUCE AN ANALYTICAL REPORT
OF THE APD TRAFFIC STOP DATA
ONCE THEY GOT IT ALL AND IT WAS
ALL COLLECTED AND EVERYTHING
ABOUT IT WAS UNDERSTOOD THE
GOAL IT WOULD BE TO PROVIDE AN
ACCURATE AND DETAILED
ASSESSMENT OF THE POTENTIAL
EVIDENCE IF THERE WAS ANY
OF RACIAL DISPARITY IN THESE
STEPS BUT ALSO TO BE A RESOURCE
GUIDE FOR OUR CIVILIAN ENTITIES
LIKE YOURSELVES CAN MAKE SENSE
AND COMMUNICATE TO THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT WHAT THIS DATA
MEANS AND HOW FURTHER EFFORTS
FOR CHANGE CAN BE INFORMED
BASED ON THE FINDINGS OF THIS
REPORT.
ALL OF THIS THEN LED TO THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR SOME
IMPLEMENTATION WHICH IS REALLY
WHERE I WANT TO FOCUS TODAY.
MOST OF THESE TASKS HAVE BEEN
DONE.
HEAVEN WILL TELL YOU A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT HIS REPORT AND A FEW
MINUTES THAT IT'S ALMOST DONE
AS WELL.
IT IS NEVER REALLY A CRITICAL
DELIVERABLE FOR US BECAUSE IT
WAS ALREADY IN PLAY AT THE TIME
THE APPLICATION FOR US WE JUST
WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU
ARE UNDERSTANDING SOME OF THE
TOOLS THAT YOUR UNIQUE BODY HAS
OUT THERE ONCE THIS DATA COMES
BEFORE YOU AND HOW CAN USE IT
AS A GROWTH OPPORTUNITY.
AND SO WE HAVE
EIGHT THOUSAND
DOLLARS IN IMPLEMENTATION MONEY
THAT WE STILL HAVE AVAILABLE
THAT WE'D LOVE TO GIVE YOU AS
YOU DECIDE TO USE IT BASED ON
THE REPORT AND THE WORK THAT'S
BEEN DONE IN YOUR ORGANIZATION
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS
TO SPEND ON SOMETHING THAT YOU
MAY NEED, MAYBE THAT'S A
RETREAT FOR YOU TO REALLY SPEND
A WHOLE DAY WORKING TOGETHER ON
A STRATEGY PLANNING AND SOME
OF THE THINGS I HEARD IN THE
SESSIONS BEFORE I SPOKE MAYBE
THAT'S A RETREAT WHERE YOU
INVITE THE POLICE DEPARTMENT IN
AND YOU GO THROUGH THE DATA
COLLECTION PROCESS TOGETHER
REALLY LEARNING FROM THE REPORT
THE SMART HAS CRAFTED AND
CONSIDERING WHAT IS NEXT FOR
APD AND DATA COLLECTION GOING
FORWARD, MAYBE I'M USING THIS
FOR AN ENGAGEMENT WITH
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHERE YOU'RE
DOING ROBUST LISTEN AND LEARN
SOME CRITICAL TOPICS THAT
YOU'RE FACING IN THE COMING
MONTHS TO IMPLEMENT IN ARE FOR
YOU TO STAND IN A WAY THAT
LIVES UP FURTHER YOUR
ORGANIZATION'S EFFORTS TO BE A
VOICE FOR THE COMMUNITY IN ANN
AND TO PARTNER WITH THE POLICE
AND SO I JUST WANTED TO COME
BEFORE YOU TO CATCH YOU UP ON
WHAT THIS IS WHERE WE'VE BEEN
AND WHERE WE'RE HEADED TO AND
TO TELL YOU A LITTLE BIT MORE
ABOUT THIS IMPLEMENTATION
BECAUSE WE'RE EXCITED TO ALLOW
YOU TO ENGAGE IN THIS NEXT STEP
AND TO FIGURE OUT WHAT MIGHT BE
A USEFUL TOOL FOR THOSE DOLLARS
GOING FORWARD.
SO I'LL PAUSE FOR A SECOND ONE
.
I'M SURE THERE'S LOTS
OF QUESTIONS BUT TWO I SPOKE A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT KEVIN'S WORK
WHICH IS MORE HIS WORK HAS BEEN
MINE AS A MANAGER OF THIS
PROJECT I OVERSEE MANY SITES SO
I WANT TO MAKE SURE I GOT ALL
THE NUANCES CORRECT THAT
KEVIN WANTS TO CORRECT THE
RECORD.
OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH, DR.
KARPIAK.
I GOT A COUPLE MORE YOU CAN ADD
.
CAN I COME UP TO THE MIKE FOR
THAT SO I CAN HEAR YOU?
CAN I JUST SING FOR THE MOST
MELLET?
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
YEAH.
IN TERMS OF THE REPORT ITSELF,
THE REPORT ITSELF, I APPRECIATE
YOUR PATIENTS.
THESE THINGS TAKE TIME.
WE ARE WORKING AS HARD AS WE
CAN.
WE'RE STILL MOSTLY ON LINE.
WE TALKED ABOUT I DO WANT THE
COMMISSION TO KNOW THAT THE
REPORT THAT WE ARE PREPARING TO
GIVE YOU IT WILL BE THE MOST
COMPREHENSIVE ROBUST ANALYSIS
OF TRAFFIC STOP THAT IN THE
HISTORY OF THE CITY THAT EVER
BASICALLY WHAT USUALLY COSTS
WELL OVER SIX FIGURES AND THAT
WE'RE HOPING TO MAKE IT BOTH
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCE AND
RESOURCE FOR FUTURE POLICY
DISCUSSIONS AND CONSIDERATIONS
TO ADDRESS RACIAL DISPARITIES
IN PUBLIC SAFETY IN THE CITY.
DO YOU HAVE THE ARE YOU STILL
COLLECTING DATA WITHIN THAT'S
THE COLLECTING DATA THE
MAJORITY OF EFFORT RIGHT NOW IS
MAKING SURE THAT THE
EXPLANATION OF DATA IS AS CLEAR
AS CAN BE TO A GENERAL AUDIENCE
.
THE MOST RECENT THE MOST RECENT
WORK THAT WE'VE BEEN DOING.
THE LAPD REQUESTED A MEETING
WITH ME A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO
THAT HAD A VERY SIMILAR KIND
OF MEETING JUST ABOUT TOUCH
BASED ON THE NATURE OF IT AND
IN THE COURSE OF THOSE
DISCUSSIONS I REALIZED THAT
BASICALLY SOME OF OUR DATA
ESPECIALLY ABOUT THE OUTCOMES
OF STOPS WAS UNUSABLE
UNFORTUNATELY.
SO THAT REQUIRED A COUPLE WEEKS
OF WORK TO REDO THE ANALYSIS
AND REPORT AND CLEAN THE
NARRATIVE AND THE LINKS AND THE
REFERENCES THAT AND TO
BASICALLY TAKE THAT OUT BECAUSE
WE CANNOT BE COMFORTABLE IN THE
SECTIONS ALONG THAT ANALYSIS.
WE'VE BEEN DOING A LOT OF THAT
I BELIEVE ALL THE CALCULATIONS
,NUMBERS AND CHARTS AND GRAPHS
ARE THERE.
IT'S REALLY ABOUT MAKING SURE
THAT WE HAVE THE MOST PRECISE
BUT ALSO GENERALLY
COMPREHENSIBLE WAY THAT WE
FRAME WHAT THOSE NUMBERS MEAN
AND PLACE BOTH A HISTORICAL AND
REGIONAL CONTEXT.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS FROM
THE COMMISSIONERS FOR EITHER
MISS DRAKE OR DR. KARPIAK
OPTION I HAVE IS WITH ALL THE
INFORMATION THAT THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT HAD PROVIDED WITH
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT COMES TO
RACE.
SURE.
I'M PRETTY CERTAIN THERE'S I
BELIEVE I CAN REMEMBER MOST
OF THE INFORMATION THEY GAVE US
BUT THEY GAVE US INFORMATION ON
THE INFORMATION INITIALLY
RECEIVED AND INFORMATION ON THE
TIME OF THE STOP THE END OF THE
STOP THERE FOR THE DURATION
OF THE STOP THERE WAS A UNIQUE
OFFICER HASHTAG ANONYMIZER
HASHTAG SO WE KNEW EVEN AND
APPROACH OFFICERS AND THEY MADE
THE STOP.
WE KNEW THE THE THE AGE AND
GENDER OF THE PERSON STOPPED
THE REASON FOR THE STOP.
BUT THERE WAS A SEARCH FOR THE
STOP.
BUT TYPE OF SEARCH WAS DONE.
THERE WAS A SEARCH DONE OVER
THE OUTCOME OF THE STOP.
THAT'S WHAT BECAME COMPLICATED
AS WELL AS THE THE THE
GEOGRAPHIC COORDINATES OF THE
STOP.
NOW I THINK WHAT YOU'RE
REFERRING TO IS WHAT YOU WANT
TO KNOW A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT
IS THE RACE WHICH WE ALSO HAD
WE HAVE ALTHOUGH THE ALL
OF THIS INFORMATION IT MUST BE
NOTED IS AS REPORTED BY APD
OFFICERS THEMSELVES.
SO IT'S ALWAYS AND I REPEAT
POLICE OFFICERS THEMSELVES
ENTERING REPORTING THIS
INFORMATION BUT ESPECIALLY FOR
RACE IT'S IMPORTANT TO KNOW AND
UNDERSTAND THAT THE MICHIGAN
DRIVER'S LICENSE DOESN'T HAVE
RACE ON IT AND SO POLICE
OFFICERS MAKE A STOP.
IT'S NOT AN EITHER PARTY POLICY
TO ASK THE RACE OF THE PERSON
TO STOP WHEN THEY STOP.
AND SO WHEN RACE IS RECORDED ON
THESE STOPS IT IS ALWAYS THE
ATTRIBUTION OF THE OFFICER WHO
THEY THINK THAT PERSON IS AND
THERE ARE SEVERAL CATEGORIES
AND WHICH ARE A LITTLE BIT
WHERE THE CAT THE RACIAL
CATEGORIES ARE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN, ASIAN WHICH
IS DISTINCT IN THEIR IN THEIR
SYSTEM FROM PACIFIC.
THOSE ARE TWO DISTINCT ONES.
THERE'S A CATEGORY OF MIDDLE
EASTERN HISPANIC WHICH IS
TREATED AS A RACE, NOT AN
ETHNICITY AND THERE'S A
CATEGORY CALLED MULTIRACIAL.
THERE'S A CATEGORY CALLED
NATIVE AMERICAN AND THERE'S A
CATEGORY SO FOR ALL OF THOSE
THE OFFICER ASCRIBED TO ONE
OF THOSE CATEGORIES TO THE
PERSON THAT THEY THEY SO IT'S
BASICALLY THE LEFT
OF DISCRETION OF THE POLICE
OFFICER ABSOLON AND THE WHETHER
THE RACE OR WHOMEVER THEY THINK
THAT THE MORE APPLICABLE TO THE
RACIAL STATISTICS OF THIS
REPORT THAT ADOPTED THAT IN
TOTAL IT SHOULD BE ARE NOT THE
PERSON'S OWN SELF IDENTITY.
THEY'RE NOT HOW THE PERSON
THEMSELVES IDENTIFY THEIR HOW
THE OFFICER IDENTIFIES THEM AT
THE TIME OF THE STOP WHEN THEY
CAN BE DANGEROUS JUST TO TAKE
NUANCE TO THE NATIONAL SPACE.
THIS IS NOT UNCOMMON NATIONALLY
THAT DISCRETION AND IDENTIFY IS
LEFT TO THE POLICE DEPARTMENT A
POLICE OFFICER SPECIALLY WHEN
IT'S NOT ON THE IDEA THAT IT
DOES CREATE CHALLENGE IN DATA
TRACKING WITH KEVIN'S REPORT
WE'LL GO INTO MORE DETAIL AT
THE TIME OF ITS COMPLETION.
IT'S THE SAME THING AS WITH THE
MICHIGAN POLICE.
SO POLICE THAT THEY SHOULD BE
LEFT TO THE DISCRETION OF THE
OFFICER BECAUSE HE CAN GO AND
ASK THE PERSON WHAT ETHNICITY
OR RACE WAS SO THAT THIS PERSON
BELONG TO NOT ONE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THE MICHIGAN STATE
POLICE AND OUR POLICE IS THAT
THE POLICE HAVE BEEN TRACKING
THIS DATA FOR TWENTY THREE
YEARS.
SO THROUGH AN ORDINANCE IN
FEBRUARY TWO THOUSAND ON CITY
COUNCIL DIRECTED REPEATEDLY
START COLLECTING THAT DATA AND
I BELIEVE IT'S ALREADY BEEN
COLLECTED WITHIN ABOUT THE LAST
FIVE YEARS BY THE MICHIGAN
STATE POLICE.
SO I JUST HAD A HOPEFULLY IF I
CAN GET A REAL QUICK ANSWER
FROM THE STUDY THAT HAD BEEN
DONE PREVIOUSLY THIS WAS AT THE
DOLEN STUDY.
THERE'S TWO THERE'S THERE'S TWO
TO BE DONE IN THE LAST TWENTY
FIVE YEARS OR SO THAT EVER THE
MOST RECENT ONE IS.
I'M JUST WONDERING BECAUSE OUT
OF CURIOSITY SURE.
APPARENTLY THERE WAS THE
METHODOLOGY WAS IN QUESTION
WHAT WHY WAS THAT WHY WAS THAT
REPORT NOT ACCURATE OR
CHARACTERISTIC.
SURE THEY GIVE YOU PAGES AND
PAGES OF THE COMIC BOOK
INDUSTRY I'M SORRY SHE SAID
SHE'S GOING TO GIVE YOU AN
ABOUT METHODOLOGY IN THE REPORT
WHEN HE COMES BACK YOUR NEXT
TIME TO PRESENT THE FULL
REPORT.
OK, WE'LL SPEND SOME REALLY
INTENTIONAL TIME DOING THAT
HERE.
OK FOR HIM TO ANSWER QUICKLY
NOW RISKS HIM SLANDERING OR
CRITICIZING SOMEONE ELSE'S WORK
THAT WOULDN'T NECESSARILY BE
APPROPRIATE AT THIS TIME
OF YEAR.
IT'S ACTUALLY RATHER
COMPLEX.
SO IF YOU'RE COMFORTABLE WE
SHOULD BETTER UNDERSTAND THAT
AT THAT TIME I PERSONALLY WOULD
BE MORE COMFORTABLE FOR SMART
TO GO BACK TO THEIR FULLER
PRESENTATION BECAUSE I THINK IT
INVOLVES SOME TIME SPENT REALLY
EXPLAINING THAT.
I BET THAT MAKES SENSE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SO AS AS I UNDERSTAND WHERE WE
ARE NOW WE WILL BE GETTING THE
FULL REPORT WITH EXPLANATIONS
AND WHATEVER WHEN IT'S
COMPLETED TO YOUR SATISFACTION.
THAT'S THAT'S WHAT WE WANT.
WE DON'T WANT THE INCOMPLETE
AND AND THE IMPLEMENTATION
FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE WHENEVER WE
DECIDE I KNOW WHEN VICE CHAIR
TO DO A HAWKGIRL GRAVES WAS
CHAIR HER IDEA WAS THIS RETREAT
WHICH IS AS YOU SAY SOUNDS LIKE
A VERY GOOD IDEA EVER.
WE WANT TO STRUCTURE THERE BUT
THOSE FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE BE
AVAILABLE TO US AFTER WE GET
THE COMPLETED REPORT.
IS THAT WHERE WE ARE NOW
SUBJECT TO THE COMPLETION
OF THE REPORT?
THE AVAILABLE TO YOU AS WE
SPEAK?
YOU CAN GO TO BEING DISTRIBUTED
IS TWO THINGS YOU CAN NAME WHAT
YOU WANT TO DO AND I JUST NEED
TO SEE A VERY ROUGH OUTLINE
OF A BUDGET OF WHAT THAT SURE.
AND I NEED TO PROVE AND THEN WE
NEED TO SET A PARTNERSHIP WITH
THE VEGETARIAN'S OF YOUR
ORGANIZATION WHICH I IMAGINE IS
THE CITY OF NANOBOT TO HELP ME
RELEASE THOSE FUNDS TO BE SURE
I DON'T SEE THAT AS A PROBLEM.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WHAT YOU'RE TELLING US IS THAT
WE CAN WE CAN WAIT ON THE
REPORT.
I DON'T KNOW IF ANYBODY WANTS
TO WANTS TO CHIME IN ON THAT.
I'M JUST CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT IS
YOUR
EVERY TIME I SAY A DAY IT
DIDN'T HAPPEN.
I REALLY WANT TO BE DONE.
I REALLY SEE THE FINISH LINE.
I AM REALLY HOPING TO HAVE DONE
BEFORE I GET TOO DEEP INTO
LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL WHICH
STARTS SATURDAY.
YOU LIKE ACTUALLY START
SATURDAY.
I'M NOT I DON'T WANT TO BE
DOING THEM AT THE SAME TIME SO
I'M HOPING TO REALLY GET THIS
DONE AS SOON AS I CAN.
BUT I DON'T WANT TO I DON'T
WANT TO PROMISE YOU DATE
BECAUSE I'VE I'VE DECIDED
BEFORE YOU DON'T NEED TO
PROMISE ME THAT YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT ANOTHER MONTH OR TWO.
YEAH.
YES.
ANOTHER MONTH OR TWO SEEMS LIKE
A A GENEROUS WINDOW.
IT'S JUST A QUICK QUESTION.
I JUST WONDER IS ANY OF THIS
DATA SEGMENTED SO THAT I KNOW
WE'VE SEGMENTED OUR OWN RACE
POSSIBLY FROM THE PERSPECTIVE
OF THE THE OFFICES BUT IS THERE
ANY UNDERSTANDING OF DIFFERENT
POPULATIONS LIKE THE HOMELESS
POPULATION, YOUNG PEOPLE,
STUDENT, ANY KIND
OF INFORMATION LIKE THAT THAT
SEGMENTS THE DATA TO BE ABLE TO
SAY THIS MANY INTERACTIONS
THESE KIND OF INTERACTIONS WERE
WITH STUDENTS OR HOMELESS
PEOPLE OR ANY OF THOSE KIND
OF POPULATIONS.
SO THE BEST PART IS I KNOW THE
OPPORTUNITY TO NOT RECORD A
PERSON'S HOUSING STATUS DURING
A TRAFFIC STOP.
ONE OF THE ACCOMPLISHMENTS
ALREADY OF THIS PARTNERSHIP HAS
BEEN THAT UNTIL WE STARTED THIS
PROCESS WITH THE OTHER PD IT
WAS IMPOSSIBLE ACTUALLY FOR
THEM TO REPORT THE AGE OF THE
PERSON STOPPED ALONG WITH IT.
AND SO THAT IS NOW POSSIBLE TO
DO UNFORTUNATELY IT WILL NOT BE
PART OF THIS ANALYSIS.
IT CAN BE PART OF FUTURE
ANALYSIS.
ONE OF THE INNOVATIVE ELEMENTS
OF HOW WE'RE GOING TO ANALYZE
DATA THAT'S NEVER BEEN DONE IN
THE REGION AS FAR AS I IS THAT
WE'RE GOING TO CROSS TABULATE
BY RACE AND GENDER SO THAT
INSTEAD OF JUST LOOKING AT KIND
OF RACIAL CATEGORIES AS A WHOLE
,WHEN I LOOK AT DIFFERENTIAL
EFFECTS FOR EXAMPLE FOR
AFRICAN-AMERICAN MEN VERSUS
AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMEN, ASIAN
MEN VERSUS ASIAN WOMEN WHICH
ARE I COULD SAY THAT ARE GOING
TO HAVE IMPORTANT RESULTS.
THANK YOU.
OK, WELL THANK YOU.
SO AGAIN WE WILL WAIT ON THE
COMPLETED REPORT AND I WOULD
THINK THAT WE DON'T WANT TO
DEAL WITH THE IMPLEMENTATION
UNTIL WE HAVE SOMETHING THAT WE
CAN TALK ABOUT.
IS THAT DOES THAT MAKE SENSE
FOR THE REST OF THE
COMMISSIONERS?
I MEAN I THINK I THINK IT MIGHT
BE GOOD TO CONSIDER WHAT YOU'RE
GOING TO DO WITH THE
IMPLEMENTATION AND PERHAPS DO
MORE THAN ONE THING WITH IT.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
WOULD THINK SHOULD BE HIGH
WITHIN OUR PRIORITIES WOULD BE
ENGAGING WITH THE PUBLIC AROUND
THE REPORT.
SO IN ADDITION TO HAVING AN
INSULAR RETREAT, I THINK THAT
COMMUNICATION OUTWARD SHOULD BE
HIGH ON THE LIST OF THINGS TO
DO WITH THE IMPLEMENTATION.
AS WE TALKED ABOUT THIS LONG
AGO, IT WASN'T CLEAR HOW MUCH
THERE WAS OR THAT THERE WAS
MONEY LEFT OVER FOR THAT FOR US
AND NOW THAT THERE SEEMS LIKE
THERE IS A BIT IT WOULD SEEM
THAT SINCE WE ARE SORT OF THE
BRIDGE BETWEEN THAT POLICE DATA
AND THE COMMUNITY THAT THAT
THAT SHOULD SHOULD CERTAINLY BE
HIGH ON THE LIST OF THE WAYS
THAT THAT MONEY GETS SPENT.
I GUESS MY TWO CENTS I WOULD
THINK THAT MAKES SENSE AND WITH
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT ANYBODY ELSE
I THINK WE CAN DO TWO THINGS AT
LEAST WITH WITH THE MONEY GOES
FAIRLY FAR AND SO I ENCOURAGE
YOU THINK ABOUT ALL AVENUES I
DON'T SO QUESTION YOU KNOW ONE
VERY GOOD.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS, COMMENTS
OR ANYTHING?
IF NOT, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU MISS DRAKE.
THANK YOU DR. KENT AND THANK
YOU KARPIAK.
WE'LL WAIT TO HEAR FROM YOU.
I APPRECIATE YOUR PATIENCE.
THANK YOU ALL.
THANK YOU.
OK, WE ARE DOWN TO OLD BUSINESS
.
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT I
TALKED ABOUT IN THE CHAIR
REPORT ARE UNDER OLD BUSINESS
AGAIN THE COMMUNITY OUTREACH
LIST PLEASE DO NOT FORGET TO
THINK ABOUT THAT NOW DISABILITY
DATA WE DIDN'T YOU BROUGHT IT
UP AND WE SORT OF TALKED ABOUT
IT BUT THEN WE JUST SORT
OF DROPPED IT WHERE SHOULD WE
GO WITH THAT?
I THINK IT'S UP TO YOU GUYS.
I THINK IT MIGHT BE INTERESTING
TO DO SOME WORK WITH THE THAT
DO SOME WORK BUT TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION MAYBE THAT'S A
JOINT CONVERSATION OR INVITING
SOMEONE FROM THE DISABILITY
COMMISSION OVER BECAUSE THERE'S
LOTS OF DISABILITY ADVOCATES IN
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN AND SOME
OF WHOM I WORK WITH AND OTHER
SORT OF LAW ENFORCEMENT GROUPS
AND THEY REALLY THINK A LOT
ABOUT THE WAYS IN WHICH PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES HEAD AND
VISIBLE GET STOPPED AND HOW
DIFFERENT I MUNICIPALITIES
DOCUMENT THE NUMBERS OF PEOPLE
AND OBVIOUSLY, YOU KNOW,
MUNICIPALITIES HAVE OBLIGATIONS
TO PROVIDE TRANSLATORS FOR
EXAMPLE, IF THEY PULL SOMEONE
OVER WHO DOESN'T SPEAK A
LANGUAGE, WHAT ARE THE
OBLIGATIONS REGARDING PEOPLE
WHO SIGN FOR EXAMPLE OR WE
CERTAINLY KNOW ABOUT WE HAVE
KNOWN ABOUT THE TRAINING FOR
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT FOR
PEOPLE ON THE AUTISM SPECTRUM
BUT WHAT DO WE KNOW, FOR
EXAMPLE, ABOUT WHAT TRAINING
THEY GO THROUGH WITH PEOPLE WHO
HAVE SPEECH IMPEDIMENTS?
FOR EXAMPLE, SOME PEOPLE HAVE
BREATHING DISORDERS THAT MAKES
THEIR SPEECH VERY DIFFICULT AND
SO I THINK THERE ARE SOME
INTERESTING QUESTIONS ABOUT
THINKING ABOUT HOW WE MIGHT BE
LOOK AT INTERACTIONS BETWEEN
POLICE AND THE DISABLED
COMMUNITY HERE AND I THINK OUR
DISABILITIES COMMISSIONER WOULD
BE A GREAT PLACE TO START AND
TO HAVE INTERACTION WITH THEM
AROUND THAT.
AND I MEAN I SPOKE WITH SOMEONE
WHO WORKS ON THAT IN DETROIT
AND SHE WOULD BE HAPPY TO ZOOM
IN OR HAPPY TO ATTEND A MEETING
TO TALK ABOUT THAT AS WELL WITH
HER WORK WITH DETROIT IN
DEARBORN.
BUT I MEAN WE HAVE A COMMISSION
HERE THAT THINKS ABOUT THE KIND
OF STUFF ALL THE TIME SO THAT
YOU OBVIOUS PLACE TO START WHEN
WE WERE AT THE COMMUNITY
ACADEMY, THE CHAIR THE
DISABILITIES COMMISSION
MENTIONED THAT THEY HAVE A
FLIER THAT THEY'VE WORKED WITH
THE PD ON THE PD'S HANDS OUT
WHEN THEY HAVE INTERACTIONS
WITH FOLKS.
AND SO I THINK THAT'S A GOOD
PLACE FOR US TO START AND IT
SEEMS LIKE THEY'VE BEEN WORKING
WITH ME FOR QUITE SOME HIGH
BECAUSE THIS IS THE SECOND OR
THIRD PRINT OF THIS DOCUMENT
THAT THEY'VE HANDED OUT.
SO I THINK THAT WOULD BE GREAT
TO HAVE A JOINT MEETING OR HAVE
THEIR CHAIR COME SPEAK WITH US
AND I THINK ONE OF THE OTHER
THINGS IS THINKING ABOUT WHERE
IS THAT DATA WITH HOW MANY
PEOPLE DO THEY COME IN CONTACT?
HOW MANY FLIERS ARE THEY HANDED
OUT?
DO THEY COUNT THAT?
WHY DON'T THEY OR DO THEY OR
WHAT THOSE NUMBERS LOOK LIKE?
AND SO, YOU KNOW, IT JUST BE
REALLY INTERESTING TO SORT
OF START TO ASK THOSE KINDS
OF QUESTIONS AND JUST, YOU
KNOW, HAVE A LITTLE BIT MORE
TRANSPARENCY AROUND THAT.
OK, YEAH.
AND WE HAVE THOSE EXPERTS RIGHT
HERE SO SO SO IT IS THE THE
ISSUE MORE THAN DISPARITIES IS
JUST HOW TO DEAL WITH THOSE
INTERACTIONS.
SO FIRST I ALWAYS THINK I THINK
IT'S GOOD TO PUT THE CART
BEHIND THE HORSE AND SO I THINK
IT WOULD BE GOOD TO KNOW ABOUT
THE NUMBERS OF INTERACTIONS,
TYPES OF INTERACTIONS, WHAT
KINDS OF THINGS THE POLICE
COLLECT DATA ON AND THEN ASK
THEM FOR THAT DATA.
I THINK IF THERE ARE THINGS
THAT THEY DON'T COLLECT THAT
MIGHT BE IMPORTANT TO THE
PUBLIC CITY COUNCIL SHOULD ASK
THEM TO COLLECT THAT DATA JUST
AS THEY DID ASK TO COLLECT
GENDER DATA IN WHAT TWO
THOUSAND NINE I THINK THEY JUST
STARTED COLLECTING GENDER DATA
FOR TRAFFIC STOPS.
SO THAT'S NOT VERY OLD AND SO
MAYBE THERE ARE OTHER OR MAYBE
THEY SHOULD DOCUMENT OTHER
KINDS OF INTERACTIONS.
THEY HAVE THESE
EITHER FLIERS
OR OTHER KINDS OF WAYS IN WHICH
THEY INTERACT WITH COMMUNITIES
AND JUST ARE THERE NUMBERS OUT
THERE AND THEN THEY MIGHT BE
INTERESTING TO LOOK AT IF THERE
ARE DISPARITIES THEY MAY NOT BE
DISPARITIES.
BUT I THINK, YOU KNOW, IT'S
IMPORTANT TO HAVE DATA FIRST TO
TO FIGURE OUT WHAT'S GOING ON
AND TO AND THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT TO MY KNOWLEDGE WE DON'T
HAVE RIGHT NOW UNLESS I'M
MISTAKEN.
OH YEAH.
OK, DON.
SO TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE WE DON'T
KNOW AT THIS POINT WHETHER THAT
AND REPEAT WE DON'T KNOW
WHETHER OR WAS WHETHER OR WHAT
DO YOU WANT TO PURSUE THAT AND
FIND OUT IF YOU WOULD LIKE ME
TO ASK?
BUT YOU KNOW I LIKE OK OK I'LL
PUT THAT DOWN.
YES MA'AM.
THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THAT COMMISSIONER
JACKSON OK DISCUSSION ON
PRETEXTUAL.
I'M SORRY.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS ON THE
DISABILITY DATA ISSUE?
OK, SO MOVING ON TO DISCUSSION
ON PRETEXTUAL THAT'S I THINK WE
CAN POSTPONE THIS.
I KNOW THE COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON IS STILL WORKING ON
THE ORDINANCE.
OK, THAT'S RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
AND WE ALREADY TALKED ABOUT THE
SUBCOMMITTEE ON POLICIES THAT
COMMISSIONER MILGRIM IS GOING
TO HEAD UP AND AGAIN ANYBODY
ELSE WANTS TO WORK ON THAT.
WE APPRECIATE IT UNDER NEW
BUSINESS I I HAVE SOMEONE IN
MIND THAT I'M GOING TO SUGGEST
BUT THEY I ASKED MR. AND ASK
WHAT IS OUR RESIDENCY
REQUIREMENT THIS PERSON HAS
ESTABLISHED BUSINESS IN THE
CITY AND LIVES IN THE TOWNSHIP.
YEAH OK.
THEY JUST REQUIRE DIFFERENT
MORE VOTES TO BE CONFIRMED BY
CITY COUNCIL ABLE TO SIT
INSTEAD OF SIX.
OK THANK YOU FOR ANYBODY WHO'S
WATCHING AGAIN WE ARE WE ARE
LOOKING WE HAVE A COUPLE
OF VACANCIES AND WE'D LIKE TO
FILL THEM DE LA ROSA.
YOU JUST NEED THE APPLICATION
PROCESS THE SAME WAY.
BUT THEN WHEN AFTER YOU'RE
NOMINATED FOR COUNCIL YOU JUST
NEED EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBER VOTES
AS AS OPPOSED TO SIX NOW AND
THEN IF YOU'RE NOT A RESIDENT
VAINA RIGHT.
BUT YOU STILL HAVE TO BE WITH
THEM WASHDOWN TECHNICALLY I
THINK IT CAN BE ANYWHERE BUT
YOU HAVE TO HAVE VESTED
INTEREST LIVE, WORK, VISIT IS
GENERALLY I THINK YEAH.
OK, ARE THERE ANY REPORTS FROM
ANY OTHER I THINK I'VE CALLED
ON ALL THE COMMITTEES BUT ANY
OTHER REPORTS FROM ANY OTHER
COMMITTEE SUBCOMMITTEES WE
DON'T HAVE OUR COUNCIL LIAISON
TODAY ANY COMMUNICATIONS ANYONE
WOULD LIKE TO SHARE.
I HAVE ONE YEAH.
SO I WAS AT MICHIGAN COMMISSION
ON LAW ENFORCEMENT STANDARDS
MEETING AND IT WAS HELD IN
DEARBORN AND I KNOW THAT
DEARBORN'S TRANSPARENCY BOARD
WAS ONE OF THE ONES THAT ANN
ARBOR POLICE DEPARTMENT IS
MODELING THERE'S AFTER AND I
GOT A QUESTION FROM TWO LAW
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS FOLKS WHOM I
WILL NOT NAME PUBLICLY.
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS THEY
NOTED IS THAT WHEN THEY LOOKED
AT OUR DASHBOARD THEY NOTICED
THAT THERE WERE ONLY I'M JUST
LOOKING AT IT NOW THIRTEEN
HUNDRED AND FORTY ONE SITE
ACTIONS AND VIOLATIONS FOR I I
MEAN JUST I'LL CHANGE TO TWENTY
TWENTY TWO BECAUSE THAT'S LIKE
A FULL YEAR.
HOLD ON A SECOND SO THAT THERE
ARE ONLY NINETEEN HUNDRED
THIRTY NINE CITATIONS WRITTEN
IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO RIGHT NOW
THAT NUMBER MIGHT SEEM VERY
SMALL TO YOU.
IT SEEMS VERY SMALL TO ME IT
SEEMS VERY SMALL TO THESE LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS ESPECIALLY
GIVEN THAT THE DATA SAYS THAT
DR. KARPIAK AND I WERE PRIVY TO
HAD ABOUT FIFTEEN THOUSAND
STOPS ON THEM ALSO RETIRED IN
OUR POLICE DEPARTMENT PERSON
WHO WORKED IN TRAFFIC FOR A
WHILE SAID THAT HE THOUGHT HE
WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR AT LEAST
FOUR HUNDRED OF THESE AND SO
NINETEEN HUNDRED SEEM SMALL.
SO THE QUESTION THAT POSED WHAT
THERE ARE TWO QUESTIONS THAT
COME UP FROM THAT NO ONE IS
FROM DO THESE NUMBERS ARISE ON
THE DASHBOARD?
WHERE DO THEY COME FROM?
BECAUSE I KNOW IN DEARBORN THEY
COME DIRECTLY THEY ARE PULLED
FROM THE CLEMINS THAT DATABASE
DEARBORN DOES NOT DO ANYTHING
TO THEM.
THEY DON'T MASSAGE THEM.
JEANNE SHAHEEN WAS VERY CLEAR.
THEY JUST ARE ABLE TO PULL THEM
IN AND THEY SHOW UP SO THEY ARE
WHAT THEY ARE.
AND SO THE QUESTION WOULD BE
FROM WHERE DO THESE DATA COME
AND THEN DO THEY USE THAT
PROCESS BECAUSE NINETEEN THIRTY
NINE SEEMS REALLY SMALL AND IF
IT IS REALLY SMALL THAT RAISES
A DIFFERENT QUESTION ABOUT WHY
THERE MIGHT ON AVERAGE FIFTEEN
THOUSAND TRAFFIC STOPS BUT ONLY
NINETEEN THIRTY NINE CITATIONS
WHICH IS A COMPLETELY DIFFERENT
KIND OF QUESTION BUT I DID WANT
TO RAISE THAT.
I KNOW OUR DASHBOARD IS NEW.
I KNOW THEY COULD BE WORKING
OUT KINKS.
LOTS OF PEOPLE HAVE YOU KNOW,
SOFT LAUNCHES BEFORE THEY GO
LIVE.
I DON'T KNOW IF WE DIDN'T GET A
CHANCE TO DO THAT BUT THE
NUMBERS JUST SEEMED QUITE OFF
TO PEOPLE OTHER THAN ME WHO
CORNERED ME IN THE ROOM AT THE
END THE MEETING TO ASK WHAT WAS
UP WITH THAT I WAS DASHBOARD'S
I THOUGHT I WOULD BRING IT TO
YOU.
IS ANYBODY WORKING?
THIS IS I JUST FIND THIS SO
COMMON NOW THAT WE GET THESE
QUESTIONS BECAUSE WE WERE JUST
IN A MEETING WITH A GROUP ON
BOARD TO COMPLAIN WHERE THEY
SAID THEY WANTED THAT IT WAS OK
TO PULL THE PERSON OVER BUT
THEY DIDN'T WANT THE PERSON TO
GET A CITATION SO AGAIN THAT'S
IT, YOU KNOW, SO WE GET THESE
QUESTIONS OK, IT'S OK TO PULL
PEOPLE OVER BUT YOU DON'T
NECESSARILY HAVE TO GIVE THEM A
TICKET.
BUT THEN THE QUESTION COMES UP
WELL THEN WHY ARE WE PULLING SO
MANY PEOPLE OVER?
WE'RE NOT GIVING GETTING A
TICKET.
SO I THINK THERE'S A LOT THAT
NEEDS TO BE YOU KNOW, LOOKED
AND QUESTIONS ABOUT OUR
DASHBOARD WAS THAT FOR TWENTY
TWENTY TWO THAT WAS FOR THE
ENTIRE YEAR IN NINETEEN THIRTY
NINE CITATIONS TWENTY TO THIRTY
SEVEN VIOLATIONS.
I'M NOT SURE HOW THOSE NUMBERS
ARE DIFFERENT.
I'M ALSO DEARBORN HAS A REALLY
HANDY DANDY YOUTUBE VIDEO THAT
SAYS HOW TO USE OUR DASHBOARD
THAT WOULD ENSURE IT'S SWEET
IT'S INEXPENSIVE JUST NOT THAT
DEARBORNE CAN'T DO ANY WRONG
BUT I'M JUST SAYING THEY HAVE
THAT AND I CAN EMAIL YOU GUYS A
LINK BUT IT'S VERY USEFUL.
HE JUST SAYS HERE'S HOW TO USE
OUR DASHBOARD.
CLICK THIS CLIP THAT HERE'S
WHERE YOU'RE LOOKING AT WHEN
YOU SEE IT IF YOU SEND THAT WAY
I THINK WE WOULD ALL APPRECIATE
THAT AND I'M SURE NOW THAT THEY
HAVE A YOUTUBE CHANNEL I'M SURE
AND PUT IT ONLINE.
YEAH, I THINK THESE ARE
LEGITIMATE QUESTIONS BUT ALSO
THE DASHBOARD JUST WENT OUT OH.
JUST RECENTLY AND I THINK WE
NEED TO GIVE THEM SOME TYPE
OF GRACE PERIOD SO THEY CAN
ADDRESS SOME OF THESE CONCERNS
AND MAYBE THE NUMBERS WILL BE
REFLECTIVE OF THE ACTUAL STOPS
AND CITATIONS OR MAYBE THE ARE
LIKE YOU SAID I THINK IT'S JUST
WE DON'T WANT TO RUSH INTO
CONCLUSIONS ON HOW AND HOW MANY
CITATIONS ARE BEING RECORDED ON
THE DASHBOARD.
I THINK IT'S JUST IT'S PROBABLY
A WORK IN PROGRESS.
I'M NOT DEFENDING THEM BUT I
THINK IT'S JUST GIVE THEM SOME
TIME AND HOPEFULLY WITH THESE
QUESTIONS MAYBE THEY CAN
IMPROVE WHETHER THE NUMBERS OR
THE DASHBOARD SO SO YOU THINK
WE SHOULD WAIT TO EVEN INQUIRE
ABOUT I THINK YOU NEED TO
INQUIRE BECAUSE YOU SHOULD NOT
HAVE ANY KIND OF INACCURATE
DATA.
IT NEEDS TO BE CORRECT BEFORE
YOU PUT IT UP.
YOU CAN DO A CLOSED LOOP SYSTEM
WHERE YOU PRACTICE TO MAKE SURE
THE DATA ARE ACCURATE BEFORE
YOU RELEASE IT AND IF THEY'VE
CHOSEN TO MAKE IT THEN WE NEED
TO ASK ABOUT IT.
I THINK NEXT TIME WE HAVE
COMMUNICATION WITH THE CHIEF OR
SO SOME OF THESE QUESTIONS CAN
BE RAISED AND ALSO MAYBE WE CAN
GET MORE ANSWERS OR DIRECT
ANSWERS TO I'M SORRY.
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER
MALDONADO.
WE JUST WANT TO KNOW I I'M
LOOKING AT INTERESTING THIS FOR
TWENTY TWENTY SHOWS TWO
NINETEEN SO ANY CITATION SEEMS
LIKE IT'S MISSING NEVER
SUPPOSED TO BE THAT THE ARREST
OF THE VICTIM ORGANIZATION.
HMM HMM.
SAID THAT THAT'S OF COURSE THE
WAY THAT WE SHOULD DO THAT.
I MEAN IT'LL TAKE SOME TIME TO
GET AN ANSWER SO BY THE TIME
YOU ASK IT MIGHT BE RESOLVED.
WELL LET ME JUST SAY I AM
COMMITTEE HAVE ANY PLANNED
MEETINGS WITH THE ACTING CHIEF
COMING UP CAN YOU PUT THAT ON
YOUR ON YOUR AGENDA THINGS TO
JUST MENTION ASK ABOUT RATHER
THAN SOME ON THE FORMAL YEAH.
REQUEST YEAH WE KNOW THAT OK
GOOD GOOD
OK ANY OTHER ANYTHING
ELSE AND I DO ENCOURAGE
COMMISSIONERS IF YOU IF YOU
HAVE ANY KIND OF INTERACTIONS
ANY CONVERSATIONS THINGS ABOUT
YOU'RE INVOLVED WITH ANY OTHER
GROUPS AND YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
WHAT WE DO YOU KNOW COME BACK
AND TELL US ABOUT IT SO WE ALL
KNOW WHAT'S WHAT'S GOING ON
WITH EVERYBODY ALSO TO REPORT
THAT WE HAD ALSO A MEETING WITH
THE UNION OF POLICE JUST I
THINK THE 21ST OF OF MARCH YOU
KNOW, THIS IS ONGOING KIND
OF OPEN DIALOG WITH THEM.
RIGHT.
AND THAT THAT IS A GOOD MEETING
AND HOPEFULLY WE JUST SORT
OF BATTED AROUND WITH WITH THEM
ACTIVITIES BETWEEN THE THE
UNION OFFICERS OR THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND AND ANACAPA SO
THAT WE CAN FOSTER THOSE GOOD
BETTER COMMUNITY RELATIONS WITH
OUR POLICE DEPARTMENT.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT YOU KNOW PEOPLE
YOU KNOW THE POLICE OFFICER WHO
WAS IN YOUR IN YOUR AREA AND
YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
THERE'S REALLY NOT ENOUGH
OFFICERS TO DO THAT RIGHT NOW
TO HAVE ANY OFFICERS ASSIGNED
TO ANY PARTICULAR AREA.
I KNOW IT WILL BE GREAT
COMMISSIONER ABILITIES IF YOU
KNEW THE OFFICERS ALWAYS OVER
THERE AROUND PEACE BUT
APPARENTLY WE CAN'T DO THAT AT
THIS POINT.
OK, ANYTHING ELSE?
IF NOT, CAN WE HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN PLEASE?
SO I MOVED SO I CAN MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER JACKSON SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER OFMAN ALL IN
FAVOR.
I OPPOSE THE MEETING IS
ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU.
>> SO WE GOT A COMMUNITY MEMBER